why,then,tis mine,if but by warwicks gift.
when i was born the wind was north.
ill force thee yield to my desire.
dolphin my boy,boy,sessa!
return the precedent to these lords again;that,having our fair order written down,both they and we,perusing oer these notes,may know wherefore we took the sacrament,and keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
orsino,this is that antonio that took thephoenixand her fraught from candy,and this is he that did thetigerboard when your young nephew titus lost his leg.
sir,i had thought,by making this well known unto you,to have found a safe redress;but now grow fearful,by what yourself too late have spoke and done,that you protect this course,and put it on by your allowance;which if you should,the fault would not scape censure,nor the redresses sleep,which,in the tender of a wholesome weal,might in their working do you that offence which else were shame,that then necessity will call discreet proceeding.
by yea and no,i think the oman is a witch indeed.
what are your pleasures with me,reverend lords?
no,sure,i cannot think it,that he would steal away so guilty-like,seeing you coming.
i hope alls for the best.
murder is thy alms-deed;petitioners for blood thou neer puttst back.
how comes that?
unarm,unarm,and do not fight today.
what a beast am i to slack it!
words sweetly placed and modestly directed.
gentlemen,the penance lies on you if these fair ladies pass away frowning.
that which you hear youll swear you see,there is such unity in the proofs.
direct me,if it be your will,where great aufidius lies.
i tell you yet again,banquos buried;he cannot come out ons grave.
come what can come,the worst is death;i will not leave the kingdom.
o,such another sleep,that i might see but such another man!
my good name?
therefore back to rome and prepare for your execution.
come down and welcome me to this worlds light;confer with me of murder and of death.
fare you well,gentlemen.
send to her,by the man that slew her brothers,a pair of bleeding hearts;thereon engrave edward and york.
youll sup with me?
i prithee,daughter,do not make me mad:i will not trouble thee,my child;farewell:well no more meet,no more see one another.
no,my lord?
have you forgot me,sir?
mother,for love of grace,lay not that flattering unction to your soul that not your trespass,but my madness speaks.
o,would i were to die with salisbury!
whither art going?
o,let it not be said!
heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
why,see you not?
he,sir,that must marry this woman.
my lord northumberland,see them dispatched.
all the commons hate him perniciously and,o my conscience,wish him ten fathom deep.
let him walk from whence he came,lest he catch cold ons feet.
can i not say,i thank you?
but wilt thou hear me how i did proceed?
this you must do:confine her to a place where the light may rather seem to steal in than be permitted.
hear the truth of it.
gloucester offers to put up a bill.
we are lucky,boy,and to be so still requires nothing but secrecy.
yet aeolus would not be a murderer,but left that hateful office unto thee.
a material fool!
soft you;a word or two before you go.
come in and give some help.
i may say the credit that thy lady hath of thee deserves thy trust,and thy most perfect goodness her assurd credit.
methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him.
this is the letter to your ladyship.
as fat as butter.
speak not you for him;hes a traitor.
what is it,my good lord,the king languishes of?
thou art woman-tird,unroosted by thy dame partlet here.
as much as i deserve!
tis not an hour since i left him well.
thoult forget me when i am gone.
and when that hour oerslips me in the day wherein i sigh not,julia,for thy sake,the next ensuing hour some foul mischance torment me for my loves forgetfulness.
enough,with over-measure.
thou abominable damned cheater,art thou not ashamed to be called captain?
you may not deny it.
if thou didst put this sour cold habit on to castigate thy pride,twere well;but thou dost it enforcedly.
mark antony in egypt sits at dinner,and will make no wars without doors.
all then is thine.
yet speak,morton;tell thou an earl his divination lies,and i will take it as a sweet disgrace and make thee rich for doing me such wrong.
how chance moonshine is gone before thisbe comes back and finds her lover?
which is the least?
but not till i am dead.
what,is he dead?
why,sweet othello?
you shall not go,my lord.
that villain cousin would have killd my husband.
so you had need;for orleans is besiegd the english army is grown weak and faint;the earl of salisbury craveth supply and hardly keeps his men from mutiny,since they,so few,watch such a multitude.
marry,heaven forbid!
good volumnius,thou knowst that we two went to school together;even for that our love of old,i prythee hold thou my sword-hilts,whilst i run on it.
i am palamon,that cannot love thee,he that broke thy prison.
what would he say?
therefore mark my counsel,which must be evn as swiftly followd as i mean to utter it,or both yourself and me cry lost,and so goodnight!
in war was never lion raged more fierce,in peace was never gentle lamb more mild,than was that young and princely gentleman.
please your lordship,here is the wine.
let us leave here,gentlemen.
were all the letters suns,i could not see one.
tis the curse of service,preferment goes by letter and affection,and not by old gradation,where each second stood heir to the first.
he met the duke in the street,sir;of whom he hath taken a solemn leave:his lordship will next morning for france.
for nym,he hath heard that men of few words are the best men;and therefore he scorns to say his prayers,lest a should be thought a coward.
know you any,count?
nay,whom they shall obey,and love thee too,unless they seek for hatred at my hands;which if they do,yet will i keep thee safe,and they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
huntsman,i charge thee,tender well my hounds;brach merriman,the poor cur is embossd,and couple clowder with the deep-mouthd brach.
judge when you hear.
o heavens themselves!
submissive fall his princely feet before,and he from forage will incline to play.
who overcame he?
but if thou knewst my mistress breathed on me,and that i eared her language,lived in her eye,o coz,what passion would enclose thee!
i have put you out.
no,this thrice worthy and right valiant lord shall not so stale his palm,nobly acquird,nor,by my will,assubjugate his merit,as amply titled as achilles is,by going to achilles.
so farewell.
