then i must not say no.
the warrants for yourself.
whats on this tomb i cannot read.
but think you,helen,if you should tender your supposed aid,he would receive it?
the moor!
thou bitch-wolfs son,canst thou not hear?
his letters bear his mind,not i,my lord.
come,come;nay,speak.
you and i have known,sir.
what an eye she has!
proud lord,thou liest.
that my leg is too long?
out,out!
so am i purposd.
troilus is the better man of the two.
yes,if he be but one.
got with much ease.
camillo,this great sir will yet stay longer.
what are you?
signior martino and his wife and daughters;county anselmo and his beauteous sisters;the lady widow of utruvio;signior placentio and his lovely nieces;mercutio and his brother valentine;mine uncle capulet,his wife,and daughters;my fair niece rosaline and livia;signior valentio and his cousin tybalt;lucio and the lively helena.
now,as i am a true woman,holland of eight shillings an ell.
it is to be all made of faith and service,and so am i for phoebe.
he is called up.
this is the same athenian.
an untimely ague stayed me a prisoner in my chamber when those suns of glory,those two lights of men,met in the vale of andren.
thoudst never fear the net nor lime,the pit-fall nor the gin.
with this kiss take my blessing:god protect thee,into whose hand i give thy life.
some of them will fall tomorrow,i hope.
fair glass of light,i loved you,and could still,were not this glorious casket stored with ill:but i must tell you,now my thoughts revolt;for hes no man on whom perfections wait that,knowing sin within,will touch the gate,you are a fair viol,and your sense the strings;who,fingerd to make man his lawful music,would draw heaven down,and all the gods to hearken;but being playd upon before your time,hell only danceth at so harsh a chime.
o be gone.
why,his masculine whore.
nay,john,it will be stinking law,for his breath stinks with eating toasted cheese.
but first,to try her skill,reignier,stand thou as dauphin in my place;question her proudly;let thy looks be stern.
he whom the gods do of the two know best,i pray them he be made your lot.
go tread the path that thou shalt neer return.
the day is ours,the bloody dog is dead.
daylight and champian discovers not more!
what would you have me be,an i be not a woman?
no man must know.
the shepherd seeks the sheep,and not the sheep the shepherd;but i seek my master,and my master seeks not me.
thy comforts can do me no good at all;thee they may hurt.
but i have that honourable grief lodgd here which burns worse than tears drown:beseech you all,my lords,with thoughts so qualified as your charities shall best instruct you,measure me;and so the kings will be performd.
ay,with these crystal beads heaven shall be bribd to do him justice,and revenge on you.
o,youre well met.
madam,tis true;and were t not madness then to make the fox surveyor of the fold,who being accused a crafty murderer,his guilt should be but idly posted over because his purpose is not executed?
by heaven i charge thee speak.
for their fell faults our brothers were beheaded,our fathers tears despised,and basely cozened of that true hand that fought romes quarrel out and sent her enemies unto the grave.
how well hes read,to reason against reading.
do not you think the duke was here,and bid us follow him?
boult,take her away;use her at thy pleasure:crack the glass of her virginity,and make the rest malleable.
if i do prove her haggard,though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings,id whistle her off,and let her down the wind to prey at fortune.
so please your highness,the queen being absent,tis a needful fitness that we adjourn this court till further day.
this is thy negligence:still thou mistakst,or else commitst thy knaveries willfully.
we are accounted poor citizens,the patricians good.
and there shall we be put in a cauldron of lead and usurers grease,amongst a whole million of cutpurses,and there boil like a gammon of bacon that will never be enough.
is she not here?
good morrow,ned.
as gaming,my lord?
they know that do accuse me,i know none;if i know more of any man alive than that which maiden modesty doth warrant,let all my sins lack mercy!
we shall know by this fellow:the players cannot keep counsel;theyll tell all.
why tender juvenal?
this way to death my wretched sons are gone;here stands my other son,a banished man,and here my brother,weeping at my woes.
o cheerful colours!
if thy revengeful heart cannot forgive,lo,here i lend thee this sharp-pointed sword,which if thou please to hide in this true breast and let the soul forth that adoreth thee,i lay it naked to the deadly stroke,and humbly beg the death upon my knee,nay,do not pause,for i did kill king henry but twas thy beauty that provoked me.
ist cade that i have slain,that monstrous traitor?
my liege,would you and i alone,without more help,could fight this royal battle!
if thou canst nod,speak too.
was is not is.
if i mistake not,thou art harry monmouth.
to business that we love we rise betime and go tot with delight.
it seems you are in haste.
you are too blunt:go to it orderly.
i will in the interim undertake one of hercules labours,which is,to bring signior benedick and the lady beatrice into a mountain of affection the one with the other.
and so they are:alas,that they are so;to die,even when they to perfection grow!
now to all sense tis gross you love my son;invention is ashamd,against the proclamation of thy passion to say thou dost not.
but take a taste of my finding him,and relish it with good observance.
go some,and follow him;and he that brings his head unto the king shall have a thousand crowns for his reward.
that a monster should be such a natural!
wolves and bears,they say,casting their savageness aside,have done like offices of pity.
nothing but thunder.
even so suspicious is this tragedy.
health to your lordships.
thus did he answer me;yet said hereafter i might know more.
fairies,away.
by all the blood that ever fury breathd,the youth says well.
simony was fair-play.
your grace of york,in gods name then set forward.
defy the devil!
woe is my heart that the poor soldier that so richly fought,whose rags shamd gilded arms,whose naked breast steppd before targes of proof,cannot be found.
have thy desire.
hast thou as yet conferred with margery jourdain,the cunning witch,with roger bolingbroke,the conjurer?
gloucester,whateer we like,thou art protector,and lookest to command the prince and realm.
ill play the housewife for this once.
page come,gentle master slender,come.
or i,whateer it be,what pain it cost,what danger!
my lord,prepare.
well,set thee down,sorrow,for so they say the fool said,and so say i,and i the fool.
well met,my lord;i am glad to see your honour.
ill be revenged of her.
lets have a song.
by all oaths in one,i and the justice of my love would make thee a confessed traitor!
let there be the same net spread for her;and that must your daughter and her gentlewoman carry.
i would it might be hangers till then.
and great pompey would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow;there would he anchor his aspect,and die with looking on his life.
almost at odds with morning,which is which.
if it be found so,some will dear abide it.
flatter and praise,commend,extol their graces;though neer so black,say they have angels faces.
how should that be?
sir,you and i must part,but thats not it;sir,you and i have loved,but theres not it;that you know well.
answer every man directly.
o the pernicious caitiff!
that trick of state was a deep envious one.
i say,o caesar,antony is dead.
i am ashamd.
but herein mean i to enrich my pain,to have his sight thither and back again.
now is that noble vessel full of grief,that it runs over even at his eyes.
you must not know where he sups.
you cannot,sir,take from me anything that i will more willingly part withal,except my life,except my life,except my life.
no had,my lord!
i humbly take my leave.
come,patroclus,ill speak with nobody.
you may be gone,it is not good you tarry here.
you have made me offer of sicily,sardinia;and i must rid all the sea of pirates;then to send measures of wheat to rome.
at this adonis smiles as in disdain,that in each cheek appears a pretty dimple;love made those hollows,if himself were slain,he might be buried in a tomb so simple;foreknowing well,if there he came to lie,why there love livd,and there he could not die.
ay,that i had not done a thousand more.
what may you be?
he capers,he dances,he has eyes of youth,he writes verses,he speaks holiday,he smells april and may.
o clifford,how thy words revive my heart!
laughest thou,wretch?
go closely in with me.
had he not reason,lord demetrius?
no,corin,being old,thou canst not guess,though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover as ever sighed upon a midnight pillow.
stay,and edify!
is t not denounced against us?
now stand you on the top of happy hours,and many maiden gardens yet unset,with virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,much liker than your painted counterfeit:so should the lines of life that life repair which this(times pencil)or my pupil pen neither in inward worth nor outward fair can make you live yourself in eyes of men.
now,for a while farewell,good duke of york.
who was it?
my mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
they say they are devised by you,or else you suffer too hard an exclamation.
how you do talk!
justice and your fathers wrath,should he take me in his dominion,could not be so cruel to me as you,o the dearest of creatures,would even renew me with your eyes.
then was i as a tree whose boughs did bend with fruit.
this is a knavery of them to make me afeard.
my noble lord,if thou dost slander her and torture me,never pray more.
and,it may be,as long as you or i.
get me some poison,iago;this night.
i pray you,uncle,give me this dagger.
i beseech you,sir,to countenance william visor of woncot against clement perkes o th hill.
of laertes?
sir,there is a proclamation that you are vanished.
what,that an eel is ingenious?
good night;and better health attend his majesty!
all good people,pray for me.
it seems you know not,then,so much as we.
marry,they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw a crust at two hours old.
since you can cog,ill play no more with you.
why,what,i pray,is margaret more than that?
as i intend,clifford,to thrive today,it grieves my soul to leave thee unassailed.
down,king!
things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour.
thy father bears the type of king of naples,of both the sicils,and jerusalem,yet not so wealthy as an english yeoman.
what is your name?
fare thee well!
thou most beauteous inn,why should hard-favoured grief be lodged in thee,when triumph is become an alehouse guest?
i am heartily sorry that hell be glad of this.
fie,fie!
to th wars,my boy,to th wars!
what,frighted with false fire?
there is no hiding you in the house.
all the good that may be wished upon thy head,i cry amen to t!
thou hast no feeling of it,moth.
i will assume desert.
bid him strive to gain the love o th commonalty.
thou shalt not live;that i may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,and sleep in spite of thunder.
five thousand mine.
orlando doth commend him to you both,and to that youth he calls his rosalind he sends this bloody napkin.
look how the black slave smiles upon the father,as who should say old lad,i am thine own.
now is it rome indeed,and room enough,when there is in it but one only man.
zounds,sir,you are one of those that will not serve god if the devil bid you.
take again from this my hand,as holding of the pope,your sovereign greatness and authority.
i know not:but i am sure tis safer to avoid whats grown than question how tis born.
in war was never lion raged more fierce,in peace was never gentle lamb more mild,than was that young and princely gentleman.
amen,if you love her;for the lady is very well worthy.
let us cast away nothing,for we may live to have need of such a verse.
help me,dear sister;in a deed so virtuous the powers of all women will be with us.
what,no more ceremony?
hence will i to my ghostly sires cell,his help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
this devil here shall be my substitute;for that john mortimer,which now is dead,in face,in gait,in speech,he doth resemble.
thou wretched,rash,intruding fool,farewell!
go to,you are too shrewd.
and he,and more than he,and men,the earth,the heavens,and all:that were i crownd the most imperial monarch,thereof most worthy,were i the fairest youth that ever made eye swerve,had force and knowledge more than was ever mans,i would not prize them without her love;for her employ them all;commend them and condemn them to her service,or to their own perdition.
the rose looks fair,but fairer we it deem for that sweet odour,which doth in it live:the canker blooms have full as deep a dye,as the perfumed tincture of the roses,hang on such thorns,and play as wantonly,when summers breath their masked buds discloses:but for their virtue only is their show,they live unwooed,and unrespected fade,die to themselves.
you have simply misused our sex in your love-prate!
i will none of your money.
but here they come:if consequence do but approve my dream,my boat sails freely,both with wind and stream.
i had rather,forsooth,go before you like a man than follow him like a dwarf.
in so profound abysm i throw all care of others voices,that my adders sense,to critic and to flatterer stopped are:mark how with my neglect i do dispense.
she either gives a stomach and no food such are the poor,in health;or else a feast and takes away the stomachsuch are the rich,that have abundance and enjoy it not.
charles delabreth,high constable of france;you dukes of orleans,bourbon,and of berry,alenon,brabant,bar,and burgundy;jacques chatillon,rambures,vaudemont,beaumont,grandpr,roussi,and fauconbridge,foix,lestrale,boucicault,and charolois;high dukes,great princes,barons,lords,and knights,for your great seats now quit you of great shames.
but be it as it may be,i will marry thee.
at the saint francis here,beside the port.
how now,my lord chief justice,whither away?
my lord,these faults are easy,quickly answered;but mightier crimes are laid unto your charge whereof you cannot easily purge yourself.
you have no cause.
my gracious sovereign,as i rode from calais,to haste unto your coronation,a letter was deliverd to my hands,writ to your grace from th duke of burgundy.
dead or alive?
if that my cousin king be king in england,it must be granted i am duke of lancaster.
with all my heart;and it doth much content me to hear him so inclind.
men daily find it.
prithee let him.
then thus:baptista is safe,talking with the deceiving father of a deceitful son.
i have led my ragamuffins where they are peppered.
but follows it,my lord,to bring me down must answer for your raising?
of one sore i an hundred make,by adding but one more l.
youngling,learn thou to make some meaner choice.
two and fifty hairs,quoth he and one white.
for none neither.
if all the devils of hell be drawn in little,and legion himself possessed him,yet ill speak to him.
let me go,or if thou follow me,do not believe but i shall do thee mischief in the wood.
fear not our care,sir.
i thank you,sir.
pray you,sir,whose daughter?
o,sir,i will not be so hard-hearted;i will give out divers schedules of my beauty.
the worthy fellow is our general.
ay,and for that thou diest.
here the street is narrow.
this is above all strangeness.
if traffic do it,the gods do it.
your pleasure,sir.
would i were with him,wheresomeer he is,either in heaven or in hell!
let the justices make you and fortune friends;i am for other business.
twas due on forfeiture,my lord,six weeks and past.
good madam,stay awhile;i will be faithful.
i am resolved to bear a greater storm than any thou canst conjure up today;and that ill write upon thy burgonet,might i but know thee by thy household badge.
though it do well,i do not relish well their loud applause andavesvehement;nor do i think the man of safe discretion that does affect it.
o lord,sir,the parties themselves,the actors,sir,will show whereuntil it doth amount.
what brings you here to court so hastily?
but to the sport abroad.
that sir which serves and seeks for gain,and follows but for form,will pack when it begins to rain,and leave thee in the storm.
the marchioness of pembroke?
i here take my oath before this honourable assembly,she kicked the poor king her father.
no,hath not?
it rested in your grace to unloose this tied-up justice when you pleased;and it in you more dreadful would have seemed than in lord angelo.
why,what make you here?
who does it,then?
and am i then revengd,to take him in the purging of his soul,when he is fit and seasond for his passage?
the late queens gentlewoman,a knights daughter,to be her mistress mistress?
thus did she,an hour together,trans-shape thy particular virtues;yet at last she concluded with a sigh,thou wast the properest man in italy.
master brook,i will first make bold with your money;next,give me your hand;and last,as i am a gentleman,you shall,if you will,enjoy fords wife.
what a mental power this eye shoots forth!
o westmoreland,thou art a summer bird,which ever in the haunch of winter sings the lifting up of day.
shall we have incision?
let me have surgeons;i am cut to the brains.
this funeral path brings to your households grave.
the poor transylvanian is dead,that lay with the little baggage.
by my fay,a goodly nap.
philemon,ho!
i give him you,the noblest that survives,the eldest son of this distressed queen.
now nature cares not for thy mortal vigour,since her best work is ruind with thy rigour.
tis a very excellent piece of work,madam lady:would twere done!
that thou shalt see the difference of our spirit,i pardon thee thy life before thou ask it.
now will i to that old andronicus,and temper him with all the art i have,to pluck proud lucius from the warlike goths.
yea,my good lord.
weep not,sweet queen,for trickling tears are vain.
cry the man mercy,love him,take his offer;foul is most foul,being foul to be a scoffer.
be it so.
ten thousand soldiers with me i will take,whose bloody deeds shall make all europe quake.
go thou further off;bid me farewell,and let me hear thee going.
here are the beetle-brows shall blush for me.
patience once more whiles our compact is urged.
armed,brother?
an honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
what letters hast thou there?
whos that?
elves,list your names;silence,you airy toys!
sicinius and brutus take their places by themselves.
a thousand,sir,early thought be,have on their riveted trim and at the port expect you.
i dare be bound hes true and shall perform all parts of his subjection loyally.
you are most bound to th king,who lets go by no vantages that may prefer you to his daughter.
cousin,thou wast not wont to be so dull.
and,my good friend,thy voluntary oath lives in this bosom,dearly cherished.
why,the enemy is loud;you hear him all night.
is wretchedness deprivd that benefit to end itself by death?
ay,but the clerk that never means to do it,unless he live until he be a man.
whereon,at three and two years old,i stole these babes,thinking to bar thee of succession as thou refts me of my lands.
did you see my cap?
and as we walk along,i dare be bold with our discourse to make your grace to smile.
hear the truth of it.
this way,my lord;the castles gently renderd:the tyrants people on both sides do fight;the noble thanes do bravely in the war,the day almost itself professes yours,and little is to do.
but those that sought it i could wish more christians.
he lovd meo false wench!
the cry went once on thee,and still it might,and yet it may again,if thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive and case thy reputation in thy tent,whose glorious deeds but in these fields of late made emulous missions mongst the gods themselves,and drave great mars to faction.
i think that one of them is hereabout,and cannot make away.
first varros servant.
no answer?
thou wretched boy,that didst consort him here,shalt with him hence.
well,let my deeds be witness of my worth.
is cadwal mad?
whilst i alone did call upon thy aid,my verse alone had all thy gentle grace,but now my gracious numbers are decayed,and my sick muse doth give an other place.
cousin palamon!
twere best he speak no harm of brutus here!
am i like such a fellow?
all men call thee fickle,if thou art fickle,what dost thou with him that is renownd for faith?
the owl shrieked at thy birth,an evil sign;the night-crow cried,aboding luckless time;dogs howled,and hideous tempest shook down trees;the raven rooked her on the chimneys top,and chattring pies in dismal discord sung;thy mother felt more than a mothers pain,and yet brought forth less than a mothers hope,to wit,an indigested and deformed lump,not like the fruit of such a goodly tree.
is it good-den?
it follows then the cat must stay at home;yet that is but a crushd necessity,since we have locks to safeguard necessaries,and pretty traps to catch the petty thieves.
trumpeters,with brazen din blast you the citys ear;make mingle with our rattling tabourines,that heaven and earth may strike their sounds together,applauding our approach.
call my women.
for my part,my lord,my purpose was not to have seen you here,but meeting with salerio by the way,he did entreat me,past all saying nay,to come with him along.
here i have a pilots thumb,wrackd as homeward he did come.
worse and worse,mistress;she has here spoken holy words to the lord lysimachus.
varlet,thou liest;thou liest,wicked varlet!
we must obey the time.
whither away?
will you yield,and this avoid,or,guilty in defence,be thus destroyd?
he will seek there,on my word.
i am perfect that the pannonians and dalmatians for their liberties are now in arms,a precedent which not to read would show the britons cold;so csar shall not find them.
vile worm,thou wast oerlooked even in thy birth.
to suckle fools and chronicle small beer.
here,madam.
past question;for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
i long to talk with the young noble soldier.
take that for your fair lady.
speed him hence.
i think i had:i never did deny it.
you have made shift to run into t,boots and spurs and all,like him that leapt into the custard;and out of it youll run again,rather than suffer question for your residence.
that angelos forsworn,is it not strange?
but,how now,sir john hume!
if i break faith,this word shall speak for me:i am forsworn on mere necessity.
what ho,pisanio!
troilus,by menelaus.
marry,i will;and this is wisely done.
good master porter,i belong to th larder.
weret not affection chains thy tender days to the sweet glances of thy honoured love,i rather would entreat thy company to see the wonders of the world abroad than,living dully sluggardized at home,wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness.
my lord!
out,you baggage!
mark how he trembles in his ecstasy.
go to,no more words.
madam,it so fell out that certain players we oer-raught on the way.
either thou art most ignorant by age,or thou wert born a fool.
say to the king,i would attend his leisure for a few words.
item,she can spin.
o heaven defend me!
well fare you,gentleman.
o,vouchsafe with that thy rare green eye,which never yet beheld thing maculate,look on thy virgin;and,sacred silver mistress,lend thine ear,which neer heard scurrile term,into whose port neer entered wanton sound,to my petition,seasoned with holy fear.
ill unhair thy head!
the earl of wiltshire is already there.
save you,sir.
thy oath remember;thou hast sworn to dot:tis but a blow,which never shall be known.
prithee,nuncle,be contented;tis a naughty night to swim in.
no,i pray you;ill not bereave you of your servant.
you see this chase is hotly followd,friends.
how many fond fools serve mad jealousy!
it will but skin and film the ulcerous place,whilst rank corruption,mining all within,infects unseen.
i think it well.
music,make their welcome!
you,you,sirrah,wheres my daughter?
yea,marry,thats the eftest way.
truly,an obedient lady.
so will ye,i am sure,that you love me.
engage it to the trial if thou darst.
lord bigot,i am none.
haste you speedily to angelo;if for this night he entreat you to his bed,give him promise of satisfaction.
the duke cannot deny the course of law,for the commodity that strangers have with us in venice,if it be denied,twill much impeach the justice of the state,since that the trade and profit of the city consisteth of all nations.
i have told my neighbour how you have been solicited by a gentleman his companion.
now,in faith,gratiano,you give your wife too unkind a cause of grief,an twere to me i should be mad at it.
not fate,obedience,nor the hand of mars beckoning with fiery truncheon my retire;not priamus and hecuba on knees,their eyes oer-galled with recourse of tears;nor you,my brother,with your true sword drawn,opposd to hinder me,should stop my way,but by my ruin.
i would theyd fight i th fire or i th air;wed fight there too.
my intelligence is true,my jealousy is reasonable.
ainsi dis-je,delbow,de nick,etde sin.
true,sir.
this is the penthouse under which lorenzo desired us to make stand.
you have some moral in this benedictus.
king richard,he is in the mighty hold of bolingbroke.
when you have done,repair to crosby place.
he did love her,sir,as a gentleman loves a woman.
my husband,then?
why,then,build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valour.
if it do him right,then he hath wronged himself.
you left poor henry at the bishops palace,and ten to one youll meet him in the tower.
i would i knew his mind.
that this huge stage presenteth nought but shows whereon the stars in secret influence comment.
then fell she on her back,fair queen,and toward:he rose and ran away;ah,fool too froward!
sleep for a week;for the next night,i warrant,the county paris hath set up his rest that you shall rest but little.
wast ever in court,shepherd?
did i,charmian,ever love caesar so?
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;and paris too.
the first i warrant thee,if dreams prove true.
you are,you areo royal pericles!
host hast thou no suit against my knight,my guest cavaliero?
god forbid!
lets tonight be bounteous at our meal.
brief,i pray you;for you see it is a busy time with me.
yet their own authors faithfully affirm that the land salic is in germany,between the floods of sala and of elbe;where charles the great,having subdud the saxons,there left behind and settled certain french;who,holding in disdain the german women for some dishonest manners of their life,establishd then this law,to wit,no female should be inheritrix in salic land;which salic,as i said,twixt elbe and sala,is at this day in germany calld meissen.
with child,perhaps?
speak the speech,i pray you,as i pronounced it to you,trippingly on the tongue.
since i am crept in favour with myself,i will maintain it with some little cost.
i have a mind to strike thee ere thou speakst.
cassius,be constant:popilius lena speaks not of our purposes;for look,he smiles,and caesar doth not change.
whos there?
but you shall not hurt me.
but seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is?
but sure,my sister,if i were ripe for your persuasion,you have said enough to shake me from the arm of the all-noble theseus;for whose fortunes i will now in and kneel,with great assurance that we,more than his pirithous,possess the high throne in his heart.
what strange,which manifold record not matches?
i am but mad north-north-west.
some coiner with his tools made me a counterfeit;yet my mother seemd the dian of that time.
a sail,a sail!
marry,i shall,and very willingly.
well,as time shall try:in time the savage bull doth bear the yoke.
lords,prepare yourselves.
i beseech you.
o let me suffer(being at your beck)th imprisoned absence of your liberty,and patience tame to sufferance bide each check,without accusing you of injury.
by the lord,an i do not,i am a villain.
why,sir,that is as fit as can be to serve for your oration;and let him deliver the pigeons to the emperor from you.
o,temperance,lady!
come,my lord,we will bestow you in some better place,fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
o world!
have you any levers to lift me up again,being down?
madam,i am here.
and yet he loves himself:ist not strange?
ay,but i fear you speak upon the rack where men enforced do speak anything.
what good is covered with the face of heaven,to be discovered,that can do me good?
god witness with me,i have wept for thine.
tomorrow shall you bear our full intent back to our brother of england.
thanks,good montgomery;but we now forget our title to the crown,and only claim our dukedom till god please to send the rest.
with voices and applause of every sort,patricians and plebeians,we create lord saturninus romes great emperor,and say long live our emperor saturnine!
and now adonis with a lazy spright,and with a heavy,dark,disliking eye,his louring brows oerwhelming his fair sight,like misty vapours when they blot the sky,souring his cheeks,cries,fie,no more of love:the sun doth burn my face;i must remove.
nay,if thou be that princely eagles bird,show thy descent by gazing gainst the sun;for chair and dukedom,throne and kingdom say,either that is thine,or else thou wert not his.
therefore thou gaudy gold,hard food for midas,i will none of thee,nor none of thee,thou pale and common drudge tween man and man:but thou,thou meagre lead,which rather threatenst than dost promise aught,thy palenness moves me more than eloquence,and here choose i,joy be the consequence!
god bless him.
who made thee then a bloody minister when gallant-springing,brave plantagenet,that princely novice,was struck dead by thee?
here,take the humour-letter.
no,good master fenton.
nay,ill to him again in name of brook.
how answer you,la plus belle katherine du monde,mon trs cher et divin desse?
and,moreover,bullybut first,master guest,and master page,and eke cavaliero slender,go you through the town to frogmore.
yet are we masters of the field.
soldiers,this day have you redeemed your lives and showed how well you love your prince and country.
never before this happy child did i get anything.
this judgement of the heavens that makes us tremble touches us not with pity.
sir,i propose not merely to myself the pleasures such a beauty brings with it;but i would have the soil of her fair rape wipd off in honourable keeping her.
what needs these feasts,pomps,and vainglories?
recoverd is the town of orleans.
the fiend hath pricked down bardolph irrecoverable,and his face is lucifers privy-kitchen,where he doth nothing but roast malt-worms.
why,so;being gone,i am a man again.
how long hath he been there?
show those things you found about her,those secret things,all but what she has with her:this being done,let the law go whistle,i warrant you.
so do not i.
and bloody england into england gone,oerbearing interruption,spite of france?
he that is giddy thinks the world turns round:i pray you tell me what you meant by that.
what a pagan rascal is this,an infidel!
enobarbus,antony hath after thee sent all thy treasure,with his bounty overplus.
plainly spoken.
romans,friends,followers,favourers of my right,if ever bassianus,caesars son,were gracious in the eyes of royal rome,keep then this passage to the capitol,and suffer not dishonour to approach the imperial seat,to virtue consecrate,to justice,continence,and nobility;but let desert in pure election shine,and,romans,fight for freedom in your choice.
was i,in sooth?
blunt-witted lord,ignoble in demeanour!
taste your legs,sir,put them to motion.
tis just to each of them:he is himself.
i do beseech you to understand my purposes aright:as you are old and reverend,you should be wise.
fill,lucius,till the wine oerswell the cup.
why,would that have mended my hair?
he would drown the stage with tears and cleave the general ear with horrid speech;make mad the guilty,and appal the free,confound the ignorant,and amaze indeed,the very faculties of eyes and ears.
lean penury within that pen doth dwell,that to his subject lends not some small glory,but he that writes of you,if he can tell,that you are you,so dignifies his story.
knocking within.
i will revenge his wrong to lady bona,and replant henry in his former state.
we see how mortal an unkindness is to them.
what dish o poison has she dressed him!
pray heavn he prove so when you come to him.
then,by the lawful power that i have,thou shalt stand cursd and excommunicate;and blessed shall he be that doth revolt from his allegiance to an heretic;and meritorious shall that hand be calld,canonized and worshippd as a saint,that takes away by any secret course thy hateful life.
master doctor,you shall go;so shall you,master page,and you,sir hugh.
she said upon a timethe bitterness of it i now belch from my heartthat she held the very garment of posthumus in more respect than my noble and natural person,together with the adornment of my qualities.
lord cardinal,the kings further pleasure is,because all those things you have done of late by your power legative within this kingdom fall into th compass of apraemunire,that therefore such a writ be sued against you to forfeit all your goods,lands,tenements,chattels,and whatsoever,and to be out of the kings protection.
and wheres cordelia?
good now,play one scene of excellent dissembling,and let it look like perfect honour.
her dotage now i do begin to pity.
every day theyd fight about you,hourly bring your honour in public question with their swords.
i see him rouse himself to praise my noble act.
not true in love?
good hubert,hubert,hubert,throw thine eye on yon young boy.
the first of april died your noble mother;and as i hear,my lord,the lady constance in a frenzy died three days before.
this learning,what a thing it is.
this to my mother.
my reasons are most strong;and you shall know them when back again this ring shall be deliverd;and on your finger in the night,ill put another ring,that what in time proceeds may token to the future our past deeds.
o disloyal thing,that shouldst repair my youth,thou heapst a years age on me!
tis unmanly grief,it shows a will most incorrect to heaven,a heart unfortified,a mind impatient,an understanding simple and unschoold;for what we know must be,and is as common as any the most vulgar thing to sense,why should we in our peevish opposition take it to heart?
we must follow you;right worthy your priority.
hours,minutes?
for two and twenty sons i never wept,because they died in honours lofty bed.
thou subtle,perjured,false,disloyal man,thinkst thou i am so shallow,so conceitless,to be seduced by thy flattery,that hast deceived so many with thy vows?
how now,prince troilus!
forget not in your speed,antonius,to touch calphurnia;for our elders say,the barren,touched in this holy chase,shake off their sterile curse.
we cannot be here and there too.
and so will i.
when she first met mark antony,she pursed up his heart upon the river of cydnus.
heaven bless thee from a tutor,and discipline come not near thee!
this,fellow.
hold little faith,though thou has too much fear.
how should i be revengd?
tis well,tis well,no more.
why,my lord?
this is the motley-minded gentleman that i have so often met in the forest.
good morrow,noble sir!
to be a dog,a mule,a cat,a fitchook,a toad,a lizard,an owl,a puttock,or a herring without a roe,i would not care;but to be menelaus,i would conspire against destiny.
nay,good troth.
if fortune brag of two she lovd and hated,one of them we behold.
ay,to the leavening;but heres yet in the word hereafter the kneading,the making of the cake,the heating of the oven,and the baking;nay,you must stay the cooling too,or you may chance burn your lips.
fair lady say you so?
let me play the lion too.
i have as much of this in art as you,but yet my nature could not bear it so.
is gilliams with the packet gone?
mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
sirrah,hast thou a knife?
how a dozen of virginities?
my language!
some certain special honours it pleaseth his greatness to impart to armado,a soldier,a man of travel,that hath seen the world.
no,lepidus,let him speak.
what i can do can do no hurt to try,since you set up your rest gainst remedy.
thy biddings have been done,and every hour,most noble caesar,shalt thou have report how tis abroad.
thou hast a sister by the mothers side,admired octavia.
sir valentine,your father is in good health.
but,my lord,when returns cranmer?
the king is in high rage.
because the king,forsooth,will have it so.
no,nor nowhere else but in your brain.
what hath been seen,either in snuffs and packings of the dukes;or the hard rein which both of them have borne against the old kind king;or something deeper,whereof,perchance,these are but furnishings;but,true it is,from france there comes a power into this scatterd kingdom;who already,wise in our negligence,have secret feet in some of our best ports,and are at point to show their open banner.
the villain jew with outcries raisd the duke,who went with him to search bassanios ship.
lets from this place.
how does he carry himself?
tis almost night;you shall have better cheer ere you depart,and thanks to stay and eat it.
think not on him till tomorrow:ill devise thee brave punishments for him.
do you bandy looks with me,you rascal?
here was a caesar!
go you,call hither my fool.
what warlike noise is this?
curtsy,sweet hearts,and so the measure ends.
whats her name?
i speak not this in estimation,as what i think might be,but what i know is ruminated,plotted,and set down,and only stays but to behold the face of that occasion that shall bring it on.
nay,an you begin to rail on society once,i am sworn not to give regard to you.
the gold i gave to dromio is laid up safe at the centaur,and the heedful slave is wanderd forth in care to seek me out.
i have peppered two of them.
then,sander,sit there,the lyingest knave in christendom.
you were wont to be a follower,but now you are a leader.
as a friend.
look,look,a mouse!
where is the life that late i led?
ay,or drinking,fencing,swearing,quarrelling,drabbing.
o publius,is not this a heavy case,to see thy noble uncle thus distract?
no;but to the gate;and there will the devil meet me,like an old cuckold,with horns on his head,and say,get you to heaven,beatrice,get you to heaven;heres no place for you maids.
but,now you have it,take it.
he had,my lord,and that it was which caused our swifter composition.
o,then,most soft sweet goddess,give me the victory of this question,which is true loves merit,and bless me with a sign of thy great pleasure.
the faults your own.
medice,teipsum.
ah,women,women!
but will you make it even?
hark how ill bribe you.
o where am i?
nor i.
there is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all things.
yet let us all together to our troops,and give them leave to fly that will not stay,and call them pillars that will stand to us;and if we thrive,promise them such rewards as victors wear at the olympian games.
o,he is more mad than telamon for his shield;the boar of thessaly was never so embossed.
in sooth,you are to blame.
begin,fool;it begins hold thy peace.
my dukedom since you have given me again,i will requite you with as good a thing;at least bring forth a wonder,to content ye as much as me my dukedom.
ladies,sit down.
woult fast?
this may plant courage in their quailing breasts,for yet is hope of life and victory.
o wherefore,nature,didst thou lions frame,since lion vile hath here deflowerd my dear?
the county will be here with music straight,for so he said he would.
here feelingly she weeps troys painted woes,for sorrow,like a heavy-hanging bell,once set on ringing,with his own weight goes;then little strength rings out the doleful knell.
that noble lady or gentleman that is not freely merry is not my friend.
make choice;and,see,who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
let me see,let me see;is not the leaf turnd down where i left reading?
and our indentures tripartite are drawn,which being sealed interchangeably,a business that this night may execute,tomorrow,cousin percy,you and i,and my good lord of worcester will set forth to meet your father and the scottish power,as is appointed us,at shrewsbury.
what say you,hermia?
for thee watch i,whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,from me far off,with others all too near.
answer not;i am gone.
tis the ninth hour o th morn.
they must be bound and laid in some dark room.
but since,so jump upon this bloody question,you from the polack wars,and you from england are here arrivd,give order that these bodies high on a stage be placed to the view,and let me speak to th yet unknowing world how these things came about.
we still have known thee for a holy man.
edward the black prince died before his father and left behind him richard,his only son,who after edward the thirds death reigned as king,till henry bolingbroke,duke of lancaster,the eldest son and heir of john of gaunt,crowned by the name of henry the fourth,seized on the realm,deposed the rightful king,sent his poor queen to france,from whence she came,and him to pomfret;where,as all you know,harmless richard was murdered traitorously.
what have you lost by losing of this day?
your wrathful weapons drawn here in our presence?
whose frothy mouth bepainted all with red,like milk and blood being mingled both together,a second fear through all her sinews spread,which madly hurries her she knows not whither:this way she runs,and now she will no further,but back retires,to rate the boar for murther.
damsel,ill have a bout with you again,or else let talbot perish with this shame.
when haply he shall hear that she is gone he will return;and hope i may that she,hearing so much,will speed her foot again,led hither by pure love.
i think he went not forth today.
well,and say that martius return me,as cominius is returned,unheard,what then?
why dost not speak to me?
why,this is brave now.
then,being there alone,left and abandoned of his velvet friends:tis right;quoth he,thus misery doth part the flux of company.
they were trained together in their childhoods,and there rooted betwixt them then such an affection which cannot choose but branch now.
what shall i call thee when thou art a man?
youll be made bring deformed forth,i warrant you.
our gayness and our gilt are all besmirchd with rainy marching in the painful field;theres not a piece of feather in our host good argument,i hope,we will not fly and time hath worn us into slovenry;but,by the mass,our hearts are in the trim;and my poor soldiers tell me,yet ere night theyll be in fresher robes,or they will pluck the gay new coats oer the french soldiers heads and turn them out of service.
theres hope int yet.
do not repent these things,for they are heavier than all thy woes can stir.
list,list,o,list!
you the like loss!
hereby,upon the edge of yonder coppice,a stand where you may make the fairest shoot.
how vexest thou this man?
it shall not wind with such a deep indent,to rob me of so rich a bottom here.
o my good lord,you were the first that found me.
come,camillo,and take her by the hand,whose worth and honesty is richly noted,and here justified by us,a pair of kings.
what,lucius,ho!
return the precedent to these lords again;that,having our fair order written down,both they and we,perusing oer these notes,may know wherefore we took the sacrament,and keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
the duke yet lives that henry shall depose.
where is my gracious lord of canterbury?
for you,prince bassianus,i have passed my word and promise to the emperor that you will be more mild and tractable.
my ducats and my daughter!
when julius csar,(whose remembrance yet lives in mens eyes,and will to ears and tongues be theme and hearing ever)was in this britain,and conquerd it,cassibelan,thine uncle,famous in csars praises no whit less than in his feats deserving it,for him and his succession granted rome a tribute,yearly three thousand pounds,which by thee lately is left untenderd.
alarums to the fight,wherein both the staffords are slain.
upon their lives.
tis a villain,sir,i do not love to look on.
a hundred knights!
cut me off the villains head.
but it sufficeth that the day will end,and then the end is known.
sir,if you spend word for word with me,i shall make your wit bankrupt.
heaven keep your honour safe.
many hot inroads they make in italythe borders maritime lack blood to think ontand flush youth revolt.
i have seen the day of wrong through the little hole of discretion,and i will right myself like a soldier.
that shall our poor city find,and all this is long of you.
but why should honour outlive honesty?
lead you on.
you shall stay too.
therefore,come back.
in these feard hopes i barely gratify your love;they failing,i must die much your debtor.
favours,by jove that thunders!
no,truly,it is more than manners will;and i have heard it said,unbidden guests are often welcomest when they are gone.
your reasons at dinner have been sharp and sententious,pleasant without scurrility,witty without affection,audacious without impudency,learned without opinion,and strange without heresy.
pardon,pardon!
and then to scape drowning thrice,and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a feather-bed;here are simple scapes.
and long upon these terms i held my city,till thus he gan besiege me:gentle maid,have of my suffering youth some feeling pity,and be not of my holy vows afraid:thats to ye sworn,to none was ever said,for feasts of love i have been calld unto,till now did neer invite,nor never woo.
thy scarlet robes,as a childs bearing-cloth,ill use to carry thee out of this place.
o hear me then,injurious,shifting time!
what is the news?
whos there?
to be worst,the lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,stands still in esperance,lives not in fear:the lamentable change is from the best;the worst returns to laughter.
o villainous!
are we turnd turks,and to ourselves do that which heaven hath forbid the ottomites?
and let our army be discharged too.
and for our fathers sake and mothers care,now let me show a brothers love to thee.
your days service at shrewsbury hath a little gilded over your nights exploit on gads hill.
he throws a thunderbolt.
why pratst thou to thyself,and answerst not?
why sweat they under burdens?
i will unto the king.
would i had donet,so the revenge alone pursud me!
but the whole weeks not fair if any day it rain.
besides,to be demanded of a spongewhat replication should be made by the son of a king?
o,she must.
if you respect them,best to take them up.
well,if i be served such another trick,ill have my brains taen out and buttered,and give them to a dog for a new years gift.
he has caught me in his eye.
sound drums and trumpets,and then enter two of titus sons,and then two men bearing a coffin covered with black;then two other sons;then titus andronicus;and then tamora,the queen of goths and her sons alarbus,chiron and demetrius with aaron the moor,and others as many as can be,then set down the coffin,and titus speaks.
all mens.
what shall we do there,wench?
turn thy back and run?
i tell the day to please him thou art bright,and dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven:so flatter i the swart-complexioned night,when sparkling stars twire not thou gildst the even.
but use your gauntlets though.
if tamora entreat him,then he will,for i can smooth and fill his aged ears with golden promises,that,were his heart almost impregnable,his old ears deaf,yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue.
if i name thee,ill beat thee,but i should infect my hands.
oppose thy steadfast-gazing eyes to mine,see if thou canst outface me with thy looks.
what say the augurers?
he wants advice.
or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back,or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
how i would spread and fling my wanton arms in at her window!
if we be not,show us the hand of god that hath dismissed us from our stewardship;for well we know no hand of blood and bone can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,unless he do profane,steal,or usurp.
nay,press not so upon me;stand far off.
saw you the weird sisters?
thanks,reignier,happy for so sweet a child,fit to be made companion with a king.
what says maria?
come,hastings,help me to my closet.
and i will see what physic the tavern affords.
we must either get her ravished,or be rid of her.
to show our simple skill,that is the true beginning of our end.
your features,lord warrant us!
that somerset be sent as regent thither.
what sayst thou?
methinks he seems no bigger than his head.
thou knowst little of my wrongs.
well,if you were but an inch of fortune better than i,where would you choose it?
though news be sad,yet tell them merrily;if good,thou shamst the music of sweet news by playing it to me with so sour a face.
we follow thee.
my master,sir john,is come in at your back door,mistress ford,and requests your company.
ariels song.
convey we salisbury into his tent,and then well try what these dastard frenchmen dare.
the world and my great office will sometimes divide me from your bosom.
you say,if i bring in your rosalind,you will bestow her on orlando here?
take your choice,and what you want at any time,let me but know it.
england neer had a king until his time.
it is the lord aeneas.
about your years,my lord.
thus with a kiss i die.
it is the worst,and all,my lord,he writes.
by the lord,thou art a traitor to say so.
whip to our tents,as roes run oer the land.
this argues what her kind of life hath been,wicked and vile;and so her death concludes.
my affections are then most humble;i have no ambition to see a goodlier man.
with this i depart,that,as i slew my best lover for the good of rome,i have the same dagger for myself,when it shall please my country to need my death.
france friend with england?
if thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord.
peace,ho!
hence,vile instrument!
madam,the lady valeria is come to visit you.
vincentios son,brought up in florence,it shall become to serve all hopes conceivd,to deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds:and therefore,tranio,for the time i study,virtue and that part of philosophy will i apply that treats of happiness by virtue specially to be achievd.
you must amend your drunkenness.
the man from sicyon is there such a one?
but if there be nor ever were one such,its past the size of dreaming.
he is my brother too.
pray you,who does the wolf love?
yet he is come.
well,get you gone.
what have i done?
bear with me.
fair katharine,and most fair,will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms such as will enter at a ladys ear and plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?
this shoe with the hole in it is my mother,and this my father.
be she honour-flawd,i have three daughters;the eldest is eleven;the second and the third,nine and some five;if this prove true,theyll pay fort.
pompey is moved.
come,woo me,woo me,for now i am in a holiday humour,and like enough to consent.
reply not to me with a fool-born jest.
about what?
how close tis caulkd and bitumed!
yes,gracious madam.
a good knave.
o,had it been a stranger,not my child,to smooth his fault i should have been more mild.
it is the count melun.
i would croak like a raven;i would bode,i would bode.
thither with all greediness of affection are they gone,and there they intend to sup.
i think i have done myself wrong,have i not?
when a mans servant shall play the cur with him,look you,it goes hard:one that i brought up of a puppy;one that i saved from drowning when three or four of his blind brothers and sisters went to it.
tis twenty years till then.
is it my lady mother?
but he sleeps.
arm you against your other enemies,ill make a peace between your soul and you.
for our love and great apollos mercy,all our best their best skill tender.
but it cannot be sounded;my affection hath an unknown bottom,like the bay of portugal.
pauca verba.
for what?
and twenty echoes twenty times cry so.
a man may,if he were of a fearful heart,stagger in this attempt,for here we have no temple but the wood,no assembly but horn-beasts.
flat burglary as ever was committed.
what are you there?
nay,then,tis time to stir him from his trance.
the sword of orleans hath not made me smart;these words of yours draw life-blood from my heart.
not till i sheathe it in a murderers skin.
how am i beguild!
rage must be withstood.
art thou not sorry for these heinous deeds?
if their singing answer your saying,by my faith,you say honestly.
tarquins self he met and struck him on his knee.
most mighty caesar,let me know some cause,lest i be laughd at when i tell them so.
what cannot be avoided twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
yes,and his ill conditions;and in despite of all,dies for him.
the prince your son,with mere conceit and fear of the queens speed,is gone.
after the slaughter of so many peers,so many captains,gentlemen and soldiers,that in this quarrel have been overthrown and sold their bodies for their countrys benefit,shall we at last conclude effeminate peace?
why or for what the nobles were committed is all unknown to me,my gracious lord.
no pains,sir;i take pleasure in singing,sir.
be governd by your knowledge,and proceed i the sway of your own will.
his confession is taken,and it shall be read to his face;if your lordship be int,as i believe you are,you must have the patience to hear it.
o the gods!
artesius,that best knowest how to draw out fit to this enterprise the primst for this proceeding,and the number to carry such a business:forth and levy our worthiest instruments,whilst we dispatch this grand act of our life,this daring deed of fate in wedlock.
o blessed,blessed night.
had you not lately an intent,speak truly,to go to paris?
this villain here,being captain of a pinnace,threatens more than bargulus the strong illyrian pirate.
the king and prince at prayers!
stand,ho!
i go of message from the queen to france;i charge thee waft me safely cross the channel.
to tell thee whence thou camst,of whom derived,were shame enough to shame thee,wert thou not shameless.
i am called dercetus.
a happiness that often madness hits on,which reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of.
ill set it down hes torn to pieces;they howled many together,and then they fed on him.
o woeful day!
petruchio,since we are steppd thus far in,i will continue that i broachd in jest.
there let his head and lifeless body lie,until the queen his mistress bury it.
but it shall be.
what is he at the gate,cousin?
awake remembrance of these valiant dead,and with your puissant arm renew their feats.
but now thy uncle is removing hence,as princes do their courts when they are cloyd with long continuance in a settled place.
maid,to thy masters bed,thy mistress is o th brothel.
god be wi you,and god mend your voices.
none,but such remedy as,to save a head,to cleave a heart in twain.
what is her name?
they say edgar,his banished son,is with the earl of kent in germany.
if,till the expiration of your month,you will return and sojourn with my sister,dismissing half your train,come then to me:i am now from home,and out of that provision which shall be needful for your entertainment.
let senses rule;the word is pitch and pay.
let deeds express whats like to be their words:we did request it;we are the greater poll,and in true fear they gave us our demands.
o pardon me for bringing these ill news,since you did leave it for my office,sir.
this is thy sheath.
re-enter others of the watch with friar lawrence.
i can suck melancholy out of a song as a weasel sucks eggs.
o father,what a hell of witchcraft lies in the small orb of one particular tear!
to be a spokesman from madam silvia.
what handkerchief?
the moor hath killd my mistress!
the studded bridle on a ragged bough nimbly she fastens;o!
now,by the death of him that died for all,these counties were the keys of normandy!
forget,forgive,conclude and be agreed;our doctors say this is no month to bleed.
is he here,say you?
farewell,kind master.
but tell me,jack,whose fellows are these that come after?
now,whats the matter,provost?
holla,barnardo!
they shall stand in fire up to the navel and in ice up to the heart,and there th offending part burns and the deceiving part freezes.
now romeo is belovd,and loves again,alike bewitched by the charm of looks;but to his foe supposd he must complain,and she steal loves sweet bait from fearful hooks:being held a foe,he may not have access to breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;and she as much in love,her means much less to meet her new beloved anywhere.
this,and these pearls,to me sent longaville.
what,are there no posts dispatched for ireland?
clamour your tongues,and not a word more.
you know i am a woman,lacking wit to make a seemly answer to such persons.
and,sweetest,fairest,as i my poor self did exchange for you,to your so infinite loss,so in our trifles i still win of you.
now,methinks,i feel a little ease.
muster your wits,stand in your own defence,or hide your heads like cowards,and fly hence.
i am damned in hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends you were good soldiers and tall fellows.
sir,sir,sir,but thou must needs be sure my spirit and my place have in them power to make this bitter to thee.
that i do beg his life,if it be sin,heaven let me bear it.
tis midnight;ill go arm myself.
turn,good lady,our perdita is found.
if that thou best a devil,i cannot kill thee.
comfort,good comfort!
great dunsinane he strongly fortifies.
o excellent young man!
here,hard by.
ajax is grown self-willd and bears his head in such a rein,in full as proud a place as broad achilles;keeps his tent like him;makes factious feasts;rails on our state of war bold as an oracle,and sets thersites,a slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint,to match us in comparisons with dirt,to weaken and discredit our exposure,how rank soever rounded in with danger.
we took him for a coward,but hes the very devil incardinate.
i had as lief have heard the night-raven,come what plague could have come after it.
until the goose came out of door,staying the odds by adding four.
lucius,i say!
the trumpet sounds.
rosencrantz and guildenstern.
with this there grows in my most ill-composd affection such a staunchless avarice,that,were i king,i should cut off the nobles for their lands;desire his jewels,and this others house:and my more-having would be as a sauce to make me hunger more;that i should forge quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,destroying them for wealth.
troilus,farewell!
is it possible that any villainy should be so dear?
how sweet,how lovely!
well part the time between s then:and in that ill no gainsaying.
zounds,ye whore,is black so base a hue?
under your sentence?
shall dunghill curs confront the helicons?
tis not my speeches that you do mislike,but tis my presence that doth trouble ye.
although before the solemn priest i have sworn,i will not bed her.
what,is he dead?
my lord,will you vouchsafe me a word?
i will desire you to live in the mean time,and eat your victuals.
what then?
i was directed hither.
how do you now?
how begot,how nourished?
o,you give me ill counsel.
i will make bold to send them to you only for this night;i must aboard tomorrow.
ay,forsooth.
and so tis.
an if it make twenty,take them all,ill answer the coinage.
what dost thou profess?
my lord,you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king.
i am a maid,my lord,that neer before invited eyes,but have been gazed on like a comet:she speaks,my lord,that,may be,hath endured a grief might equal yours,if both were justly weighd.
come then,and take the last warmth of my lips.
although unqueened,yet like a queen and daughter to a king inter me.
hail,caesar!
methinks a father is at the nuptial of his son a guest that best becomes the table.
duke,if we have pleased thee too and have done as good boys should do,give us but a tree or twain for a maypole,and again,ere another year run out,well make thee laugh,and all this rout.
a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
who plucks the bud before one leaf put forth?
at saint gregorys well.
good bardolph,put thy face between his sheets,and do the office of a warming-pan.
nay,thats not so.
if i should speak,she would mock me into air:o!
what think you,sir john?
so,my good window of lattice,fare thee well;thy casement i need not open,for i look through thee.
behold,the heavens do ope,the gods look down,and this unnatural scene they laugh at.
here a comes;and the scots captain,captain jamy,with him.
yet you began rudely.
give me your hand.
of athens here,my lord.
ill force thee yield to my desire.
you i th camlet,get up o th rail!
follow my heels,rugby.
when thou dost hear i am as i have been,approach me,and thou shalt be as thou wast,the tutor and the feeder of my riots.
what ring gave you,my lord?
why i do trifle thus with his despair is done to cure it.
truly,thou art damned,like an ill-roasted egg,all on one side.
if thou canst love a fellow of this temper,kate,whose face is not worth sunburning,that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there,let thine eye be thy cook.
o,how,how?
he hath confessed.
and let this world no longer be a stage to feed contention in a lingering act;but let one spirit of the first-born cain reign in all bosoms,that,each heart being set on bloody courses,the rude scene may end,and darkness be the burier of the dead!
gone already!
would that he were gone!
i had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
when as a lions whelp shall,to himself unknown,without seeking find,and be embracd by a piece of tender air;and when from a stately cedar shall be loppd branches which,being dead many years,shall after revive,be jointed to the old stock,and freshly grow;then shall posthumus end his miseries,britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.
for obtaining of suits?
i thank my god for my humility.
othello are there not stones in heaven but what serve for thunder?
had i not four or five women once that tended me?
white-livered runagate,what doth he there?
and thou the velvet.
it is a good divine that follows his own instructions;i can easier teach twenty what were good to be done than to be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching.
i cannot be baited one doit of a thousand pieces.
set you forward,for i will see you gone.
nay,task me to my word;approve me,lord.
so far he toppd my thought that i in forgery of shapes and tricks,come short of what he did.
lordings,farewell;and say,when i am gone,i prophesied france will be lost ere long.
pray,whats the news?
want no mistress ford,master brook;you shall want none.
and we mean well in going to this mask;but tis no wit to go.
i know not what to do.
come,i will fasten on this sleeve of thine.
and now this ornament makes me look dismal will i clip to form;and what this fourteen years no razor touchd to grace thy marriage-day,ill beautify.
i like the work well.
one mess is like to be your cheer;come,sir;we will better it in pisa.
good faith,and when i met this holy man,the men you talk of came into my mind.
i know not,madam.
what,patch-breech,i say!
how camet?
it were a shame to call her back again and pray her to a fault for which i chid her.
good night:early tomorrow will we rise,and hence.
the nature of bad news infects the teller.
do,an if you will.
o,this dread night,wouldst thou one hour come back,i could prevent this storm and shun thy wrack!
love doth approach disguised,armed in arguments.
at last she smilingly with this gives oer;fool,fool!
but tis no matter.
they said that palamon had arcites body within an inch o th pyramid,that the cry was generalpalamon.
we talk here in the public haunt of men.
iago,look with care about the town,and silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
well,i had rather than twice the worth of her she had neer come here.
good night,sweet prince,and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.
why,this is your own folly.
why then,let them alone till they are sober:if they make you not then the better answer,you may say they are not the men you took them for.
faith,i can tell her age unto an hour.
banished,sir.
make the doors upon a womans wit,and it will out at the casement.
thou chidst me well.
it shall be so.
what,not an oath?
how should they,when that wise men have no eyes?
is it a maid?
ignorance itself is a plummet oer me.
madam,well play at bowls.
)bring thee all this;yea,and furrd moss besides,when flowrs are none,to winter-ground thy corse prithee have done,and do not play in wench-like words with that which is so serious.
he that comforts my wife is the cherisher of my flesh and blood;he that cherishes my flesh and blood loves my flesh and blood;he that loves my flesh and blood is my friend;ergo,he that kisses my wife is my friend.
do but behold yon poor and starved band,and your fair show shall suck away their souls,leaving them but the shales and husks of men.
if,sir,you come with news from the court,i take it theres but two ways,either to utter them,or conceal them.
i praisd her as i rated her.
thou better knowst the offices of nature,bond of childhood,effects of courtesy,dues of gratitude;thy half o the kingdom hast thou not forgot,wherein i thee endowd.
tis more than you deserve;but since you teach me how to flatter you,imagine i have said farewell already.
yond light is not daylight,i know it,i.
upon a wooden coffin we attend,and deaths dishonourable victory we with our stately presence glorify,like captives bound to a triumphant car.
made her groan a month for t,or two,or three,or ten.
thou praisest the worst best.
who is so gross that cannot see this palpable device?
come hither,good volumnius;list a word.
lord,what fools these mortals be!
take heed,ere summer comes,or cuckoo birds do sing.
you are the fount that makes small brooks to flow.
i offered to awaken his regard fors private friends.
tell me,thou unknown power,he knows thy thought:hear his speech,but say thou naught.
the cutter was as another nature,dumb;outwent her,motion and breath left out.
fie on thee,jolt-head,thou canst not read.
i found it in my chamber.
god bless the king!
good my lord,forbear:the ruddiness upon her lip is wet;youll mar it if you kiss it,stain your own with oily painting.
he answered,tush,it can do me no damage,adding further that had the king in his last sickness failed,the cardinals and sir thomas lovells heads should have gone off.
sir,it is the kings most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulate the princess at her pavilion in the posteriors of this day,which the rude multitude call the afternoon.
let this be so;his means of death,his obscure burial,no trophy,sword,nor hatchment oer his bones,no noble rite,nor formal ostentation,cry to be heard,as twere from heaven to earth,that i must callt in question.
as thou art a knave and no knave.
warwick comes;clifford flies.
we will yet do well.
let love,being light,be drowned if she sink!
and i to sigh for her,to watch for her,to pray for her!
now i would pray our monsieurs to think an english courtier may be wise and never see the louvre.
but so is not she.
go to;let that be mine.
begone,beseech you.
who did strike out the light?
so noble a master falln?
coming from sardis,on our former ensign two mighty eagles fell,and there they perchd,gorging and feeding from our soldiers hands,who to philippi here consorted us.
o sweet-suggesting love,if thou hast sinned,teach me,thy tempted subject,to excuse it.
why,but you are now well enough:how came you thus recovered?
throw some of them at me.
how sad he looks!
let them wag;trot,trot.
never came poison from so sweet a place.
now question me no more;we are espied;here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty,which dreads not yet their lives destruction.
i would it were not notorious.
let me endure your wrath,ift be not so.
the benefit thereof is always granted to those whose dealings have deserved the place and those who have the wit to claim the place.
what did you swear you would bestow on me?
hero thinks surely she will die;for she says she will die if he love her not,and she will die ere she make her love known,and she will die if he woo her,rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness.
i neer heard yet that any of these bolder vices wanted less impudence to gainsay what they did than to perform it first.
true,madam,none at all.
are we not beaten?
but thou,to whom my jewels trifles are,most worthy comfort,now my greatest grief,thou best of dearest,and mine only care,art left the prey of every vulgar thief.
the presence of a king engenders love amongst his subjects and his loyal friends,as it disanimates his enemies.
item,it is further agreed between them,that the duchies of anjou and maine shall be released and delivered to the king her father,and she sent over of the king of englands own proper cost and charges,without having any dowry.
madam,a noble gentleman of rome comes from my lord with letters.
i desire you in friendship,and i will one way or other make you amends.
no,cassius,for the eye sees not itself but by reflection,by some other thing.
ill say as they say,and persever so,and in this mist at all adventures go.
with wit or steel?
she hath but one for herself;to desire that were a shame.
what shalt thou expect to be depender on a thing that leans,who cannot be new built,nor has no friends so much as but to prop him?
sweetheart,i were unmannerly to take you out and not to kiss you.
it standeth north-north-east and by east from the west corner of thy curious-knotted garden.
this deed will be well welcome to lorenzo.
my liege,the duke of buckingham is taken.
now,to our perjury to add more terror,we are again forsworn in will and error.
i serve you,madam:your graces are right welcome.
o my troth,most sweet jests,most incony vulgar wit,when it comes so smoothly off,so obscenely,as it were,so fit.
you are deceived,my substance is not here;for what you see is but the smallest part and least proportion of humanity.
how answer you for yourselves?
o my parolles,they have married me!
i was never curst;i have no gift at all in shrewishness;i am a right maid for my cowardice;let her not strike me.
the news is very fair and good,my lord:richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
but i love thee,none but thee;and thou deservest it.
what makes treason here?
you have done well by water.
you shall see him a palm in athens again,and flourish with the highest.
not a false gallop.
a segregation of the turkish fleet.
this bastard graff shall never come to growth;he shall not boast who did thy stock pollute that thou art doting father of his fruit.
macbeth,lennox.
i would not spare my brother in this case if he should scorn me so apparently.
pray heaven i be deceived in you.
gods arm strike with us!
he is gone,he is gone,and we cast away moan.
what,what!
and here it rests,that youll procure the vicar to stay for me at church,twixt twelve and one,and,in the lawful name of marrying,to give our hearts united ceremony.
as near the dawning,provost,as it is,you shall hear more ere morning.
and so i do still,by these pickers and stealers.
tell me thy mind;for i have pisa left and am to padua come as he that leaves a shallow plash to plunge him in the deep,and with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
i saw her first.
ha,sir john,said i well?
their cheeks are paper.
i have bethought me of another fault.
with that he gave his able horse the head,and bending forward struck his armed heels against the panting sides of his poor jade up to the rowel-head,and starting so he seemd in running to devour the way,staying no longer question.
let not the sound of shallow foppry enter my sober house.
how dares the plants look up to heaven,from whence they have their nourishment?
a question to be asked.
yes,wench,we know him.
now,daughter silvia,you are hard beset.
let not that doctor eer come near my house,since he hath got the jewel that i loved,and that which you did swear to keep for me,i will become as liberal as you,ill not deny him anything i have,no,not my body,nor my husbands bed.
away,be gone!
why should i write this down thats riveted,screwd to my memory?
theres wood enough within.
fair lady,by your leave,i come by note to give and to receive.
write down thy mind,bewray thy meaning so,an if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.
they,for their truth,might better wear their heads than some that have accused them wear their hats.
this thou shalt answer.
look,on the sheets his hair,you see,is sticking;his well-proportioned beard made rough and rugged,like to the summers corn by tempest lodged.
this is the quondam king;lets seize upon him.
speaking is for beggars:he wears his tongue ins arms.
to leave my julia,shall i be forsworn;to love fair silvia,shall i be forsworn;to wrong my friend,i shall be much forsworn.
i had myself twenty angels given me this morning,but i defy all angels in any such sort,as they say,but in the way of honesty.
he a good wit?
she comes to you.
now make your choice.
but,mistress,do you know the french knight that cowers i the hams?
a thousand thanks,signior gremio;welcome,good cambio.
look you,he must seem thus to the world.
good sir,to the purpose.
no,none that thou hast wit enough to make.
where learnd you this,fool?
i may not go in without your worship.
her hair is auburn,mine is perfect yellow;if that be all the difference in his love,ill get me such a coloured periwig.
jove sometime went disguised,and why not i?
why,how now,ganymede,sweet ganymede!
thus i mend it:time himself is bald,and therefore,to the worlds end will have bald followers.
shall i go win my daughter to thy will?
tis no time to talk.
within this mile and half.
our army shall in solemn show attend this funeral,and then to rome.
love loving not itself none other can.
pagesir hugh is there,is he?
ill have thee speak out the rest of this soon.
to th pot,i warrant him.
put but thy head out of this window more and,as i have a soul,ill nail thy life to t.
shall i teach you to know?
to a nunnery,go;and quickly too.
o young john talbot,i did send for thee to tutor thee in stratagems of war,that talbots name might be in thee revived when sapless age and weak unable limbs should bring thy father to his drooping chair.
i will cap that proverb with there is flattery in friendship.
what if i had said i had seen him do you wrong?
do,de,de,de.
twas a rough night.
you may deny that you were not the mean of my lord hastings late imprisonment.
he knows i am no maid,and hell swear tot:ill swear i am a maid,and he knows not.
to whisper and conspire against my youth?
as far as i see,all the good our english have got by the late voyage is but merely a fit or two o th face;but they are shrewd ones,for when they hold em,you would swear directly their very noses had been counsellors to pepin or clotharius,they keep state so.
wheres monsieur mustardseed?
had our prince,jewel of children,seen this hour,he had paird well with this lord.
i and my fellows are ministers of fate:the elements of whom your swords are temperd may as well wound the loud winds,or with bemockd-at stabs kill the still-closing waters,as diminish one dowle thats in my plume.
i know not why he comes.
convey me to my bed,then to my grave.
my lord,i am a man whom fortune hath cruelly scratchd.
you are my father,for methinks in you i see old gaunt alive.
o,insupportable!
good uncle,i beseech you,on my knees i beseech you,whats the matter?
the worthy knight of troy.
but ill unto his majesty,and crave i may have liberty to venge this wrong;when thou shalt see ill meet thee to thy cost.
doth my lord call?
how long ist ago,jack,since thou sawest thine own knee?
my courteous lord,adieu.
you he bade attend him here this morning.
now let me see if i can construe it:hic ibat simois,i know you not;hic est sigeia tellus,i trust you not;hic steterat priami,take heed he hear us not;regia,presume not;celsa senis,despair not.
very hardly upon such a subject.
to have smelld like a fool.
high-reaching buckingham grows circumspect.
ay,to me.
the rogue fled from me like quicksilver.
what observation madst thou in this case of his hearts meteors tilting in his face?
i left him well.
fie on him,jezebel!
well follow where thou leadst,like stinging bees in hottest summers day led by their master to the flowered fields,and be avenged on cursed tamora.
wast thou with rosaline?
tis still a dream,or else such stuff as madmen tongue,and brain not;either both or nothing,or senseless speaking,or a speaking such as sense cannot untie.
i am thane of cawdor:if good,why do i yield to that suggestion whose horrid image doth unfix my hair,and make my seated heart knock at my ribs,against the use of nature?
my lord,i have considered in my mind the late request that you did sound me in.
his curses and his blessings touch me alike,theyre breath i not believe in.
the king from eltham i intend to steal,and sit at chiefest stern of public weal.
i did so;and take heed ont,make it a darling like your precious eye.
do you know where we may apprehend her and the moor?
trebonius knows his time,for look you,brutus,he draws mark antony out of the way.
we have lost our labour;they are gone a contrary way.
first let me ask of these if they can brook i bow a knee to man.
lead me from hence;i faint.
behold and see.
thou canst not,cardinal,devise a name so slight,unworthy,and ridiculous,to charge me to an answer,as the pope.
what noise is this i hear?
but by the ear,that hears most nobly of him;his face i know not.
ay,i think my cousin meant well.
he did receive his letters,and is coming,and bid me say to you by word of mouth,o caesar!
if thou attempt it,it will cost thee dear;thou hast no weapon,and perforce must suffer.
how now,sir proteus?
it may be so.
shall we disturb him,since he keeps no mean?
if i do wake,some planet strike me down,that i may slumber an eternal sleep!
for your stubborn answer about the giving back the great seal to us,the king shall know it and,no doubt,shall thank you.
a woman would run through fire and water for such a kind heart.
o,the dog is me,and i am myself.
but can you teach all this you speak of?
his bloody brow with his mailed hand then wiping,forth he goes like to a harvestman thats tasked to mow or all or lose his hire.
it hath it original from much grief,from study and perturbation of the brain.
the next is that sir thomas more is chosen lord chancellor in your place.
achilles will not to the field tomorrow.
i hate him for he is a christian,but more for that in low simplicity he lends out money gratis,and brings down the rate of usance here with us in venice.
your wife and brother made wars upon me,and their contestation was theme for you;you were the word of war.
i do not think.
o,sir,upon her nose,all oer-embellished with rubies,carbuncles,sapphires,declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of spain,who sent whole armadoes of carracks to be ballast at her nose.
the porter opens the gate.
o powerful love,that in some respects,makes a beast a man,in some other a man a beast!
this shall be answered.
give me pen and ink.
i am but sorry,not afeard;delayd,but nothing altred:what i was,i am:more straining on for plucking back;not following my leash unwillingly.
yet i hope,when he considers more,this love of mine will take more root within him.
so would i have said.
rogue,thou hast lived too long.
ah,what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
theres no comparison.
receive him then to favour,saturnine,that hath expressed himself in all his deeds a father and a friend to thee and rome.
i speak against my present profit,but my wish hath a preferment int.
let me lick thy shoe.
i would it might prove the end of his losses.
on,bardolph,lead the men away.
what do you say,sister?
so i would not he should do me,my lord,lest i should prove the mother of fools.
then would i have his harry,and he mine:but let him from my thoughts.
ingrateful fox!
come,come,you know i gave it you even now.
rashly,and praisd be rashness for it,let us know,our indiscretion sometime serves us well,when our deep plots do pall;and that should teach us theres a divinity that shapes our ends,rough-hew them how we will.
o happy horse,to bear the weight of antony!
no more a soldier.
thyself i call it,being strange to me,that,undividable,incorporate,am better than thy dear selfs better part.
so tis said,sir;about his son,that should have married a shepherds daughter.
theres much example for t.
if i could get this foolish imogen,i should have gold enough.
knowst thou this paper?
i thought your honour had already been at shrewsbury.
ay,to keep her chamber.
he outgoes the very heart of kindness.
to do that office of thine own good will which tired majesty did make thee offer:the resignation of thy state and crown to henry bolingbroke.
o,god defend me!
should i lie,madam?
sing,and disperse em,if thou canst.
ay,or very falsely pocket up his report.
or,ere they meet,in me,o nature,cesse!
divinest creature,astraeas daughter,how shall i honour thee for this success?
that made me to fear,although,my lord,i know my noble aunt loves me as dear as eer my mother did,and would not,but in fury,fright my youth;which made me down to throw my books,and fly,causeless,perhaps.
not to speak of.
here lurks no treason,here no envy swells,here grow no damned drugs;here are no storms,no noise,but silence and eternal sleep.
haply,when i shall wed,that lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry half my love with him,half my care and duty:sure i shall never marry like my sisters,to love my father all.
the complaints i hear of thee are grievous.
not yet.
a canopy,borne by four of the cinque ports;under it,the queen in her robe,in her hair,richly adorned with pearl,crowned.
yet sit and see,minding true things by what their mockries be.
never so few,and never yet more need.
if thou thoust him some thrice,it shall not be amiss,and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of paper,although the sheet were big enough for the bed of ware in england,set em down.
twere good you knocked him.
i sit at ten pounds a week.
you were best to go to bed and dream again,to keep thee from the tempest of the field.
a fair assembly.
now,you companion,ill say an errand for you.
henceforward do your messages yourself.
we will not from the helm to sit and weep,but keep our course,though the rough wind say no,from shelves and rocks that threaten us with wrack.
she wakes.
the prince is a jack,a sneak-up.
do you not like it?
to my grief,i am the heir of his reward,which i will add to you,the liver,heart,and brain of britain,by whom i grant she lives.
so shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means i shall then have to prefer them,and the impediment most profitably removed,without the which there were no expectation of our prosperity.
no,faith;not so much as his patience.
why,how now,lords!
from alexandria this is the news:he fishes,drinks,and wastes the lamps of night in revel:is not more manlike than cleopatra,nor the queen of ptolemy more womanly than he;hardly gave audience,or vouchsafed to think he had partners.
dost thou thirst,base trojan,to have me fold up parcas fatal web?
what means death in this rude assault?
brother of england,how may we content this widow lady?
you were as flowrs,now witherd.
so should my papers(yellowed with their age)be scorned,like old men of less truth than tongue,and your true rights be termed a poets rage,and stretched metre of an antique song.
heres a change indeed!
i once more take my leave.
ah,good my liege,i pray thee pardon me.
my pulse as yours doth temperately keep time,and makes as healthful music.
bid nestor bring me spices,ink and paper,my casket and my jewels;and bid nicander bring me the satin coffer:lay the babe upon the pillow:hie thee,whiles i say a priestly farewell to her:suddenly,woman.
if i may be believed,so;if not,let them that should reward valour bear the sin upon their own heads.
we were never so much out of creatures.
i am for it,lieutenant;and ill do you justice.
a plague upon him,dog!
the world was very guilty of such a ballad some three ages since,but i think now tis not to be found;or if it were,it would neither serve for the writing nor the tune.
what think you,captain fluellen,is it fit this soldier keep his oath?
if you pardon,we will mend.
you would have thought the very windows spake,so many greedy looks of young and old through casements darted their desiring eyes upon his visage,and that all the walls with painted imagery had said at once jesu preserve thee!
tis he and cloten;malice and lucre in them have laid this woe here.
stay,yet look back with me unto the tower.
if this which he avouches does appear,there is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
thou with an eagle art inspired then.
ill to him,he is hid at lawrence cell.
what a long night is this!
to prison with her.
tell me,that i may sack the hateful mansion.
let him but copy what in you is writ,not making worse what nature made so clear,and such a counterpart shall fame his wit,making his style admired every where.
be advisd.
see,caesar!
o how are they wrapped in with infamies that from their own misdeeds askance their eyes!
ay,and twenty.
that shall you,and take your leave of all your friends.
i do make myself believe that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited benefit;redeem your brother from the angry law;do no stain to your own gracious person;and much please the absent duke,if peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of this business.
what say you?
he whom my father namd?
and if she do,i would i were an eunuch.
when didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
sir(i thank her)that.
this common body,like to a vagabond flag upon the stream,goes to and back,lackeying the varying tide,to rot itself with motion.
my masters.
o,that record is lively in my soul!
master ford,awake;awake,master ford!
that is the sum of all,leonato:signior claudio,and signior benedick,my dear friend leonato hath invited you all.
madam,and you,my sister,will you go to give your censures in this business?
whats the news from venice?
this is he.
nor shalt not till necessity be served.
i like him not,nor stands it safe with us to let his madness range.
but in this changing,what is your intent?
tomorrow we must with all our main of power stand fast;and heres a lordcome knights from east to west and cull their flower,ajax shall cope the best.
now blessed be the hour,by night or day,when i was got,sir robert was away!
come,youll play with me,sir?
you nickname virtue:vice you should have spoke;for virtues office never breaks mens troth.
madam,my lord your father would speak with you.
thou has a grim appearance,and thy face bears a command int.
by isis,i will give thee bloody teeth if thou with caesar paragon again my man of men.
i have not that alacrity of spirit nor cheer of mind that i was wont to have.
where are these gentlemen?
at last,though long,our jarring notes agree:and time it is when raging war is done,to smile at scapes and perils overblown.
your honour knows what tis to say well enough.
when could they say,till now,that talkd of rome,that her wide walls encompassd but one man?
what sayst thou to me now?
put not your worthy rage into your tongue.
death,traitor!
o spartan dog,more fell than anguish,hunger,or the sea,look on the tragic loading of this bed.
no,pompey,i have kept me from the cup.
so i do.
the fringed curtains of thine eye advance,and say what thou seest yond.
i have tonight despatchd sixteen businesses,a months length apiece;by an abstract of success:i have congied with the duke,done my adieu with his nearest;buried a wife,mournd for her,writ to my lady mother i am returning,entertained my convoy,and between these main parcels of despatch effected many nicer needs:the last was the greatest,but that i have not ended yet.
he will spare neither man,woman,nor child.
but soft!
it fits us then to be as provident as fears may teach us out of late examples left by the fatal and neglected english upon our fields.
know,caesar dost not wrong,nor without cause will he be satisfied.
tis the eye of childhood that fears a painted devil.
this must my comfort be:that sun that warms you here shall shine on me,and those his golden beams to you here lent shall point on me and gild my banishment.
what treason were it to the ransackd queen,disgrace to your great worths,and shame to me,now to deliver her possession up on terms of base compulsion!
how now,mephostophilus?
when laban and himself were compromisd that all the eanlings which were streakd and pied should fall as jacobs hire,the ewes being rank in end of autumn turned to the rams,and when the work of generation was between these woolly breeders in the act,the skilful shepherd pilld me certain wands,and in the doing of the deed of kind,he stuck them up before the fulsome ewes,who then conceiving did in eaning time fall parti-colourd lambs,and those were jacobs.
what,so brief?
one face,one voice,one habit,and two persons!
the name of cassius honours this corruption,and chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
see where they come.
ford,perpend.
what other would you expect?
accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
tis spoken well.
o,farewell!
this field-bed is too cold for me to sleep.
how fares our cousin,noble lord of york?
my worthy cawdor!
pray,sir,be patient.
all that would hang us every mothers son.
grandam,we can,for my good uncle gloucester told me,the king,provoked to it by the queen,devised impeachments to imprison him;and when my uncle told me so,he wept,and pitied me,and kindly kissed my cheek;bade me rely on him as on my father,and he would love me dearly as his child.
who ist that calls?
you told us of some suit.
if we mean to thrive and do good,break open the gaols and let out the prisoners.
you all consented unto salisburys death,for none would strike a stroke in his revenge.
his breeding,sir,hath been at my charge:i have so often blushd to acknowledge him that now i am brazd tot.
o then tread down my need,and faith mounts up;keep my need up,and faith is trodden down!
o yes,and soundless too,for you have stoln their buzzing,antony,and very wisely threat before you sting.
hostess,clap to the doors.
be avised,sir,and pass good humours.
good night,honest iago.
the grieved commons hardly conceive of me.
oui,vraiment,sauf votre grce,ainsi dit-il.
no place,indeed,should murder sanctuarize;revenge should have no bounds.
i pray you let me speak with you.
how were they lost?
this door is open,he is gone this way.
i cannot speak,nor think,nor dare to know that which i know.
and as goods lost are seld or never found,as vaded gloss no rubbing will refresh,as flowers dead lie witherd on the ground,as broken glass no cement can redress,so beauty blemishd once,for evers lost,in spite of physic,painting,pain and cost.
but wilt thou hear me how i did proceed?
put on my crown.
tell me,good my friend,what torch is yond that vainly lends his light to grubs and eyeless skulls?
open your purse,that the money and the matter may be both at once delivered.
he hath,my lord,but be you well assurd,no more than hell unswear.
now,by gods mother,priest,ill shave your crown for this,or all my fence shall fail.
what,thou speakst drowsily?
at such a time ill loose my daughter to him.
bless our poor virginity from underminers and blowers-up!
and though you think that all,as you have done,have torn their souls by turning them from us,and we are barren and bereft of friends,yet know:my master,god omnipotent,is mustering in his clouds on our behalf armies of pestilence,and they shall strike your children yet unborn and unbegot,that lift your vassal hands against my head and threat the glory of my precious crown.
i think theseus cannot be umpire to himself,cleaving his conscience into twain and doing each side like justice,which he loves best.
you have of these pedlars that have more in them than youd think,sister.
in both my eyes he doubly sees himself,in each eye one.
tranio,lets go.
what,ho!
well,hes not here i seek for.
and to her will frame all thy ways;spare not to spend,and chiefly there where thy desert may merit praise,by ringing in thy ladys ear:the strongest castle,tower and town,the golden bullet beats it down.
nay,eleanor,then must i chide outright.
th advancement of your children,gentle lady.
with three or four loggerheads amongst three or fourscore hogsheads.
the huntress,all moist and cold,some say,began to throw her bow away and sigh.
not i,unless the breath of heartsick groans mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.
wantst thou eyes at trial,madam?
how comes that?
sprites and fires!
seyton!
you are too indulgent.
believe me,king of shadows,i mistook.
go with me,silvius.
do,thou hempseed!
no man so potent breathes upon the ground but i will beard him.
for fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.
i heard him say brutus and cassius are rid like madmen through the gates of rome.
villain,thou shalt findby the kind gods,tis most ignobly done to pluck me by the beard.
we do not come,as minding to content you,our true intent is.
ah,rogue!
you are looked for and called for,asked for and sought for,in the great chamber.
dogs,easily won to fawn on any man!
theres not a grain of it the face to sweeten of the whole dungy earth.
though he does bear some signs of me,yet you have too much blood in him.
o then,my father,will you permit that i shall stand condemned a wandering vagabond,my rights and royalties plucked from my arms perforce and given away to upstart unthrifts?
have you not read,roderigo,of some such thing?
alas,my lord,i have but killed a fly.
he is the rock,the oak not to be wind-shaken.
you have some stain of soldier in you;let me ask you a question.
yes,the fashion is the fashion.
his horse is slain,and all on foot he fights,seeking for richmond in the throat of death.
he hath borne me on his back a thousand times;and now,how abhorred in my imagination it is!
romans,make way!
o pyramus,arise,speak,speak.
will you have me,lady?
but alack,you snatch some hence for little faults;thats love,to have them fall no more.
this life is most jolly.
once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes with your sun-beamed eyesthey will not answer to that epithet.
o fearful meditation,where alack,shall times best jewel from times chest lie hid?
there is remuneration for the best ward of mine honour is rewarding my dependents.
if he miscarry,farewell wars in france.
woman,do what thou canst to save our honours;drive them from orleans and be immortalized.
madam,i am not well.
we shall entreat you to abide here till he come,and enforce them against him.
if i were by,i might do hurt,for they would glance their eyes towards my seat,and in that motion might omit a ward or forfeit an offence which craved that very time.
shall i let them in?
the king takes his state.
the odds for high and lows alike.
nor i neither.
therefore,dear boy,mount on my swiftest horse,and ill direct thee how thou shalt escape by sudden flight.
that is the very defect of the matter,sir.
for these my present friends,as they are to me nothing,so in nothing bless them,and to nothing are they welcome.
if that be made a theme for disputation,the branches of another root are rotted,and undeserved reproach to him allotted that is as clear from this attaint of mine as i,ere this,was pure to collatine.
carlisle,this is your doom:choose out some secret place,some reverend room,more than thou hast,and with it joy thy life.
old lord,i cannot blame thee,who am myself attachd with weariness to th dulling of my spirits:sit down,and rest.
ill buckle t close.
where is my page?
he might have chid me so,for,in good faith,i am a child to chiding.
one dead,or drunk?
o my dear lord.
on him i lay that you would lay on me,the right and fortune of his happy stars,which god defend that i should wring from him.
it cannot be calld our mother,but our grave,where nothing,but who knows nothing,is once seen to smile;where sighs,and groans,and shrieks,that rent the air,are made,not markd;where violent sorrow seems a modern ecstasy.
i shall,sir.
thou odoriferous stench,sound rottenness!
a gentleman?
fear him not,caesar;hes not dangerous;he is a noble roman and well given.
why,rude companion,whatsoeer thou be,i know thee not;why,then,should i betray thee?
o god,sir,heres a dish i love not:i cannot endure my lady tongue.
their pleasures here are past,so is their pain.
we came hither to fight with you.
he has done nobly,and cannot go without any honest mans voice.
forsake thy seat,i do beseech thee,captain,and hear me speak a word.
o lychorida.
wheres antony?
why,one that rode tos execution,man,could never go so slow.
away,and let me die.
thou art the thing itself:unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor,bare,forked animal as thou art.
lord,how youre grown!
say,has our general met the enemy?
so much for that.
there,my lord:the high promotion of his grace of canterbury,who holds his state at door,mongst pursuivants,pages,and footboys.
but i had rather kill two enemies.
being entertained for a perfumer,as i was smoking a musty room,comes me the prince and claudio,hand in hand,in sad conference:i whipt me behind the arras,and there heard it agreed upon that the prince should woo hero for himself,and having obtained her,give her to count claudio.
why,this is a passing merry one and goes to the tune of two maids wooing a man.
i know this man well.
what,dost thou go?
the laws,your curb and whip,in their rough power has unchecked theft.
but if you fail,without more speech,my lord,you must be gone from hence immediately.
i have not scapd drowning,to be afeard now of your four legs;for it hath been said,as proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground;and it shall be said so again,while stephano breathes at nostrils.
learn this,thomas,and thou shalt prove a shelter to thy friends,a hoop of gold to bind thy brothers in,that the united vessel of their blood,mingled with venom of suggestion as,force perforce,the age will pour it in shall never leak,though it do work as strong as aconitum or rash gunpowder.
i am glad thou canst speak no better english;for if thou couldst,thou wouldst find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think i had sold my farm to buy my crown.
how canst thou woo her?
think not i love him,though i ask for him.
well,my lord,since you have given me leave to speak,freely will i speak.
tipstaves before him,the axe with the edge towards him,halberds on each side,accompanied with sir thomas lovell,sir nicholas vaux,sir william sandys and common people.
by all your good leaves,gentlemen;here ill make my royal choice.
we are to cure such sorrows,not to sow em.
madam,if t please the queen to send the babe,i know not what i shall incur to pass it,having no warrant.
little have you to say when you depart from him,but,soft and low,remember now my brother.
shall a few sprays of us,the emptying of our fathers luxury,our scions put in wild and savage stock,spirt up so suddenly into the clouds,and overlook their grafters?
o,if thou couch but one night with her,every hour in t will take hostage of thee for a hundred,and thou shalt remember nothing more than what that banquet bids thee to.
would she had never given you leave to come!
youre kindly welcome.
it is but foolery;but it is such a kind of gain-giving as would perhaps trouble a woman.
this is a gentle provost.
in this i bury all unkindness,cassius.
what does he mean?
undo that prayer by crying out as loud o,bless my brother!
what say you to it?
of very reverend reputation,sir,of credit infinite,highly belovd,second to none that lives here in the city.
how now there?
praised be god,and not our strength,for it!
ay,sir,they be ready;the oats have eaten the horses.
what reason have you for t?
now,hal,to the news at court.
his nurse?
thanks,sir:the like to you.
the beasts,the fishes,and the winged fowls are their males subjects,and at their controls.
ay,or more than we should seek after;for we know enough,if we know we are the kings subjects.
was not gaunt just?
and such fellows are perfect in the great commanders names;and they will learn you by rote where services were done;at such and such a sconce,at such a breach,at such a convoy;who came off bravely,who was shot,who disgracd,what terms the enemy stood on;and this they con perfectly in the phrase of war,which they trick up with new-tuned oaths:and what a beard of the generals cut and a horrid suit of the camp will do among foaming bottles and ale-washd wits,is wonderful to be thought on.
i have broke your hest to say so.
wherein thou art less happy being feard than they in fearing.
thrice-noble suffolk,tis resolutely spoke.
thank you,good lord archbishop.
nay,ill have a starling shall be taught to speak nothing but mortimer,and give it him,to keep his anger still in motion.
mother,good night.
and is but is?
ay,that they do,my lord.
must i not serve a long apprenticehood to foreign passages,and in the end,having my freedom,boast of nothing else but that i was a journeyman to grief?
how smooth and even they do bear themselves!
disfigure not his shop.
prince pericles,touch not,upon thy life,for thats an article within our law,as dangerous as the rest.
double,double,toil and trouble;fire,burn;and cauldron,bubble.
well not run,monsieur monster.
it is as lawful,for we would give much,to use violent thefts and rob in the behalf of charity.
o monument and wonder of good deeds evilly bestowed!
forsooth,five years,and as much as tofrancis!
i think i saw your wisdom there.
but i say,wheres their women?
and but my noble moor is true of mind and made of no such baseness as jealous creatures are,it were enough to put him to ill thinking.
are your supplications to his lordship?
o,in the duke of gloucesters purse.
by two oclock i will be with thee again.
am i not an inch of fortune better than she?
he may,my lord;has wherewithal.
there is my gage,the manual seal of death that marks thee out for hell.
upon thy eyeballs murderous tyranny sits in grim majesty to fright the world.
come,noble burgundy.
master,go on and i will follow thee to the last gasp with truth and loyalty.
this prince hath neither claimed it nor deserved it and therefore,in mine opinion,cannot have it.
leap thou,attire and all,through proof of harness to my heart,and there ride on the pants triumphing.
give me my robe.
here is like to be a good presence of worthies.
is it even so?
there will be the beauty of this kingdom,ill assure you.
love,i love thee not,i care not for thee,kate.
i am always bound to you.
your presence makes us rich,most noble lord.
thats helenus.
strike up our drums,pursue the scattrd stray:god,and not we,hath safely fought today.
no,god forbid that i should wish them severed whom god hath joined together.
i am absolute twas very cloten.
tis certain he hath passd the river somme.
let never day nor night unhallowed pass,but still remember what the lord hath done.
ah,now no more will i control thy griefs.
swounds,show me what thoult do:woult weep?
-lucina,o!
look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest,now is the time that face should form another,whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,thou dost beguile the world,unbless some mother.
what cause of suspicion?
what beggst thou,then?
yea,but so i am apt to do myself wrong;i am not so reputed:it is the base though bitter disposition of beatrice that puts the world into her person,and so gives me out.
that my master,being scribe,to himself should write the letter?
i marvel where troilus is.
shame on himself,for my desert is honour;and to repair my honour lost for him,i here renounce him and return to henry.
faith,sirrah,and youll not knock,ill ring it;ill try how you can sol,fa,and sing it.
this oily rascal is known as well as pauls.
maybe he will not touch young arthurs life,but hold himself safe in his prisonment.
but it is certain that when he makes water,his urine is congealed ice;that i know to be true.
why should i,mother?
i,in probation of a sisterhood,was sent to by my brother;one lucio as then the messenger.
he is too picked,too spruce,too affected,too odd,as it were,too peregrinate,as i may call it.
in our remove be thou at full ourself.
nay,warwick,single out some other chase;for i myself will hunt this wolf to death.
if it be so to do good service,never let me be counted serviceable.
what an equivocal companion is this!
o,you say well.
mine eyes are full of tears;i cannot see:and yet salt water blinds them not so much but they can see a sort of traitors here.
ah,poor heart!
we thank your grace.
who can be bound by any solemn vow to do a murderous deed,to rob a man,to force a spotless virgins chastity,to reave the orphan of his patrimony,to wring the widow from her customed right,and have no other reason for this wrong but that he was bound by a solemn oath?
anne bullen?
can these two live,and have the agony of love about em,and not kill one another?
the gods confoundhear me,you good gods all!
ill lead.
come,shepherd,let us make an honourable retreat,though not with bag and baggage,yet with scrip and scrippage.
fill the cup,and let it come,ill pledge you a mile to th bottom.
i mean to shift my bush,and then pursue me as you draw your bow.
what do you in this wise company?
thou hast.
come,side by side together live and die,and soul with soul from france to heaven fly.
in respect that it is solitary,i like it very well;but in respect that it is private,it is a very vile life.
they are all couched in a pit hard by hernes oak,with obscured lights,which,at the very instant of falstaffs and our meeting,they will at once display to the night.
o,that forcd thunder from his heart did fly,o,that sad breath his spongy lungs bestowd,o,all that borrowed motion,seeming owed,would yet again betray the fore-betrayed,and new pervert a reconciled maid.
for he is set so only to himself that nothing but himself which looks like man is friendly with him.
besides,you grow dishonest.
thereafter as they be;a score of good ewes may be worth ten pounds.
can fulvia die?
francis flute,the bellows-mender.
o,my daughter!
what means this,herald?
the king takes place under the cloth of state.
he loves the gallimaufry.
i will come by and by.
for every man that bolingbroke hath pressed to lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,god for his richard hath in heavenly pay a glorious angel.
ah,sirrah!
o,still thy deafening,dreadful thunders;gently quench thy nimble,sulphurous flashes!
fall not a tear,i say;one of them rates all that is won and lost.
donc votre est france,et vous tes mienne.
those that would die or ere resist are grown the mortal bugs o th field.
well guessed,believe me,for that was my meaning.
but all the story of the night told over,and all their minds transfigurd so together,more witnesseth than fancys images,and grows to something of great constancy;but,howsoever,strange and admirable.
anything,he cares not;and the devil come to him,its all one.
come,fool,come;try me in thy paper.
no more,unless the next word that thou speakst have some malignant power upon my life.
nay,i prithee take it;it is an earnest of a further good that i mean to thee.
ay,marry,sweeting,if we could do that,france were no place for henrys warriors;nor should that nation boast it so with us,but be extirped from our provinces.
heres the scroll,the continent and summary of my fortune.
a merrier day did never yet greet rome,no,not th expulsion of the tarquins.
he will come straight.
then,as in grateful virtue i am bound to your free heart,i do return those talents,doubled with thanks and service,from whose help i derived liberty.
old fond eyes,beweep this cause again,ill pluck ye out,and cast you with the waters that you lose to temper clay.
he sings several tunes faster than youll tell money.
are we betrayed thus to thy over-view?
fidele,sir.
here,sir.
o,how this villainy doth fat me with the very thoughts of it!
a herald,ho!
when she comes!
give me thy glove,soldier.
further this act of grace;and from this hour the heart of brothers govern in our loves and sway our great designs!
will you go with me?
o for a muse of fire,that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention,a kingdom for a stage,princes to act,and monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
he told me that rebellion had bad luck and that young harry percys spur was cold.
the woman falls.
so thou,posthumus,wilt lay the leaven on all proper men:goodly and gallant shall be false and perjurd from thy great fail.
a council table brought in with chairs and stools and placed under the state.
there is a kind of merry war betwixt signior benedick and her;they never meet but theres a skirmish of wit between them.
let no assembly of twenty be without a score of villains.
i am a soldier,and unapt to weep or to exclaim on fortunes fickleness.
come not to me again,but say to athens timon hath made his everlasting mansion upon the beached verge of the salt flood,who once a day with his embossed froth the turbulent surge shall cover;thither come,and let my gravestone be your oracle.
have you eyes?
you must think this,look you,that the worm will do his kind.
yes,by saint anne,i do.
what do you call the play?
my lord,i love you,and durst commend a secret to your ear much weightier than this work.
what,no attendance?
i would forget her;but a fever she reigns in my blood,and will remembered be.
is sir john falstaff here?
but there is no such man;for,brother,men can counsel and speak comfort to that grief which they themselves not feel;but,tasting it,their counsel turns to passion,which before would give preceptial medicine to rage,fetter strong madness in a silken thread,charm ache with air and agony with words.
say,whats thy name?
i would not for the world they saw thee here.
youll sup with me?
and more than so,presenteth to mine eye the picture of an angry chafing boar,under whose sharp fangs on his back doth lie an image like thyself,all staind with gore;whose blood upon the fresh flowers being shed,doth make them droop with grief and hang the head.
methinks my favour here begins to warp.
a flourish.
storm continues.
ods lifelings,here he is!
you are most hot and furious when you win.
besides,he hates me for my father warwick,and will,no doubt,shortly be rid of me.
no more,i say.
come,lieutenant pistol;come,bardolph.
to ireland will you lead a band of men,collected choicely,from each county some,and try your hap against the irishmen?
tis midnight,charles.
admit him,sir.
will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?
ill speak of her no more,nor of your children.
you have heard of such a spirit,and well you know the superstitious idle-headed eld received and did deliver to our age,this tale of herne the hunter for a truth.
but manhood is melted into curtsies,valour into compliment,and men are only turned into tongue,and trim ones too:he is now as valiant as hercules,that only tells a lie and swears it.
i have heard the frenchman hath good skill in his rapier.
so,as a painted tyrant,pyrrhus stood,and like a neutral to his will and matter,did nothing.
for i do know the state,however this may gall him with some check,cannot with safety cast him,for hes embarkd with such loud reason to the cyprus wars,which even now stand in act,that,for their souls,another of his fathom they have none to lead their business.
and theres troilus will not come far behind him;let them take heed of troilus,i can tell them that too.
brother,i like not this;for many men that stumble at the threshold are well foretold that danger lurks within.
tis false.
yet oft,when blows have made me stay,i fled from words.
acquaint her with the danger of my state;implore her,in my voice,that she make friends to the strict deputy;bid herself assay him.
he drew a good bow,and dead!
alas,the tender boy,in passion moved,doth weep to see his grandsires heaviness.
or what great danger dwells upon my suit?
speak,brother,hast thou hurt thee with the fall?
the private wound is deepest.
if the event o th journey prove as successful to the queen,o,bet so!
it were enough to fright the realm of france.
but i pray,sir,why am i beaten?
thou bringst me out of tune.
doth any here know me?
then make your garden rich in gillyvors,and do not call them bastards.
what is my offence?
god and king henry govern englands realm!
the crowner hath sat on her,and finds it christian burial.
i knew him once a servant of the prince;i cannot tell,good sir,for which of his virtues it was,but he was certainly whipped out of the court.
o yet defend me,friends.
by law of nature thou art bound to breed,that thine may live when thou thyself art dead;and so in spite of death thou dost survive,in that thy likeness still is left alive.
so thou mayst say the king lies by a beggar,if a beggar dwell near him;or the church stands by thy tabor,if thy tabor stand by the church.
strangle such thoughts as these with anything that you behold the while.
but hear thee,gratiano,thou art too wild,too rude,and bold of voice,parts that become thee happily enough,and in such eyes as ours appear not faults;but where thou art not known,why there they show something too liberal.
neer through an arch so hurried the blown tide as the recomforted through th gates.
the painful service,the extreme dangers,and the drops of blood shed for my thankless country are requited but with that surname,a good memory and witness of the malice and displeasure which thou shouldst bear me.
he has killd me,mother:run away,i pray you!
it is a thing i made,which hath the king five times redeemd from death.
lets get us from the walls,for talbot means no goodness by his looks.
they bore him barefacd on the bier,hey non nonny,nonny,hey nonny and on his grave raind many a tear.
theyre here with me already;whispring,rounding,sicilia is a so-forth.
i,by attorney,bless thee from thy mother,who prays continually for richmonds good.
o,that it could be proved that some night-tripping fairy had exchanged in cradle-clothes our children where they lay,and called mine percy,his plantagenet!
yes,my lord,if it please your grace.
how are we parkd and bounded in a pale,a little herd of englands timorous deer,mazed with a yelping kennel of french curs!
it is turned out of towns and cities for a dangerous thing;and every man that means to live well endeavours to trust to himself and live without it.
as many as be here of pandars hall,your eyes,half out,weep out at pandars fall;or,if you cannot weep,yet give some groans,though not for me,yet for your aching bones.
if you thrive well,bring them to baynards castle,where you shall find me well accompanied with reverend fathers and well-learned bishops.
whilst he stood up and spoke,he was my master,and i wore my life to spend upon his haters.
i do condemn mine ears that have so long attended thee.
true,and it was enjoined him in rome for want of linen;since when,ill be sworn,he wore none but a dishclout of jaquenettas,and that he wears next his heart for a favour.
if my observation,which very seldom lies,by the hearts still rhetoric disclosed with eyes,deceive me not now,navarre is infected.
indeed,i bid the base for proteus.
but tarquins shape came in her mind the while,and from her tongue can lurk from cannot took.
you are full of pretty answers.
behold,the english beach pales in the flood with men,with wives and boys,whose shouts and claps out-voice the deep-mouthd sea,which like a mighty whiffler fore the king seems to prepare his way.
she is continually in a harmless distemper,sleeps little,altogether without appetite,save often drinking,dreaming of another world,and a better;and what broken piece of matter soeer shes about,the name palamon lards it,that she farces every business withal,fits it to every question.
be gone,and come when you are called.
o the twelfth day of decemberfor the love o god,peace!
i am confessor to angelo,and i know this to be true;therefore prepare yourself to death.
you do yourselves much wrong,you bate too much of your own merits.
if i owe you anything i will pay you in cudgels.
not shine today?
ah,buckingham,now do i play the touch,to try if thou be current gold indeed.
these words are razors to my wounded heart.
you are deceived.
and leave us,publius;lest that the people rushing on us,should do your age some mischief.
ah,you sweet little rogue,you!
hes one honest enough.
as surely as i live,my lord.
but,sweet heart,let that pass.
in gods name and the kings,say who thou art,and why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms,against what man thou comst,and what thy quarrel.
ist a verdict?
what do you here?
would you not swear,all you that see her,that she were a maid,by these exterior shows?
sir,if youd save your life,fly to your house.
my ashes,as the phoenix,may bring forth a bird that will revenge upon you all;and in that hope i throw mine eyes to heaven,scorning whateer you can afflict me with.
so much for the time when.
coragio!
call him in.
thus hath the course of justice wheeled about and left thee but a very prey to time,having no more but thought of what thou wast to torture thee the more,being what thou art.
cousin of exeter,frowns,words,and threats shall be the war that henry means to use.
hang him,foul collier!
twould anger him to raise a spirit in his mistress circle,of some strange nature,letting it there stand till she had laid it,and conjurd it down;that were some spite.
ay,hal,tis hot,tis hot.
that such a slave as this should wear a sword,who wears no honesty.
i swear tis better to be much abusd than but to knowt a little.
i say farewell.
go,nurse,go with her.
ay,marry,am i,sir,and now tis plotted.
what should he be?
live a thousand years,i shall not find myself so apt to die.
now,sirrah,you do wish yourself in egypt?
drink a good hearty draught;it breeds good blood,man.
come,lets to dinner;come,lets to dinner.
friar,not i.
o dainty duck!
they are fairly welcome.
let every man be master of his time till seven at night;to make society the sweeter welcome,we will keep ourself till supper time alone:while then,god be with you.
very like a whale.
all ready;and therefore,i pray thee,news.
willt not be?
sixteen at least,my lord.
i pray you,sir,my ring,or else the chain;i hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
and buried,gentle tyrrel?
our prayers do outpray his;then let them have that mercy which true prayer ought to have.
your lordship ever binds him.
i am scarce in breath,my lord.
ingratitude,thou marble-hearted fiend,more hideous when thou showst thee in a child than the sea-monster!
heaven take my soul,and england keep my bones!
what can happen to me above this wretchedness?
so many journeys may the sun and moon make us again count oer ere love be done.
why,a prince should not be so loosely studied as to remember so weak a composition.
so it appears by that i have to say.
i say he shall,go to;am i the master here,or you?
whats the news with you?
somerset is killed.
come away,servant,come!
one of this kind is cassio:in sleep i heard him say,sweet desdemona,let us be wary,let us hide our loves;and then,sir,would he gripe and wring my hand,cry o sweet creature!
but have you a full promise of her?
yes,your renowned name;shall flight abuse it?
he shall spurn fate,scorn death,and bear his hopes bove wisdom,grace,and fear.
how now,my lord?
this in the public eye?
how does your grace?
good gods,what happiness has palamon!
for my part,ill meddle nor make no more i the matter.
most maculate thoughts,master,are masked under such colours.
it doth appear you are a worthy judge;you know the law;your exposition hath been most sound.
how shall we beguile the lazy time,if not with some delight?
why do you weep?
so went to bed,where eagerly his sickness pursued him still;and three nights after this,about the hour of eight,which he himself foretold should be his last,full of repentance,continual meditations,tears,and sorrows,he gave his honours to the world again,his blessed part to heaven,and slept in peace.
shall i so much dishonour my fair stars on equal terms to give him chastisement?
why,then the maid is mine from all the world,by your firm promise;gremio is out-vied.
bear mine to him,and so depart in peace.
from helmet to the spur all blood he was.
i,having been acquainted with the smell before,knew it was crab,and goes me to the fellow that whips the dogs.
he ploughed her,and she cropped.
than hector is.
what follows if we disallow of this?
what does the tyrant?
tis well consented:presently away;for to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
i think tis no unwelcome news to you.
but long she thinks till he return again,and yet the duteous vassal scarce is gone.
nay,never paint me now.
youll never meet a more sufficient man.
young arthurs death is common in their mouths.
in me hath grief slain fear,and but for one thing,i care for nothing,and thats palamon.
god,i pray him,that none of you may live his natural age,but by some unlooked accident cut off.
so please my lord,i might not be admitted,but from her handmaid do return this answer:the element itself,till seven years heat,shall not behold her face at ample view;but like a cloistress she will veiled walk,and water once a day her chamber round with eye-offending brine:all this to season a brothers dead love,which she would keep fresh and lasting in her sad remembrance.
are you not signior benedick?
o fie,fie,fie!
swoons rather,for so bad a prayer as his was never yet for sleep.
fie,no,do not believe it;he cannot want for money.
my body or my soul,which was the dearer,when the one pure,the other made divine?
go and say we purpose her no shame.
let me be taen,let me be put to death,i am content,so thou wilt have it so.
light boats sail swift,though greater hulks draw deep.
one in ten,quoth a!
mine eyes were not in fault,for she was beautiful;mine ears,that heard her flattery;nor my heart that thought her like her seeming.
these drums,these trumpets,flutes!
will you prickt with your eye?
thus has he,and many more of the same bevy that i know the drossy age dotes on,only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter;a kind of yeasty collection,which carries them through and through the most fanned and winnowed opinions;and do but blow them to their trial,the bubbles are out.
and what not done,that thou hast cause to rue,wherein i had no stroke of mischief int?
ill dive into the burning lake below,and pull her out of acheron by the heels.
such men as he be never at hearts ease whiles they behold a greater than themselves,and therefore are they very dangerous.
i inform them?
fear not,cesario,take thy fortunes up.
a serving-man,proud in heart and mind;that curled my hair;wore gloves in my cap;served the lust of my mistress heart,and did the act of darkness with her;swore as many oaths as i spake words,and broke them in the sweet face of heaven.
besides,i ha not since put up my sword,against the capitol i met a lion,who glared upon me,and went surly by,without annoying me.
good morrow,neighbour baptista.
france,i am burnd up with inflaming wrath;a rage whose heat hath this condition,that nothing can allay,nothing but blood,the blood,and dearest-valud blood,of france.
report thy parentage.
so will it fare with claudio:when he shall hear she died upon his words,the idea of her life shall sweetly creep into his study of imagination,and every lovely organ of her life shall come apparelld in more precious habit,more moving,delicate,and full of life into the eye and prospect of his soul,than when she livd indeed:then shall he mourn,if ever love had interest in his liver,and wish he had not so accused her,no,though he thought his accusation true.
good meat,sir,is common;that every churl affords.
stand you?
well,thats set down.
speak,lavinia,what accursed hand hath made thee handless in thy fathers sight?
as the event stamps them:but they have a good cover;they show well outward.
yet ill move him to walk this way.
as i have made ye one,lords,one remain.
impute it not a crime to me or my swift passage,that i slide oer sixteen years,and leave the growth untried of that wide gap,since it is in my power to oerthrow law,and in one self-born hour to plant and oerwhelm custom.
quick proceeders,marry!
this is all-souls day,fellow,is it not?
music i th air.
better than remuneration,a levenpence farthing better.
but who comes here?
it shall go hard but ill prove it by another.
die men like dogs!
why,tis good to be sad and say nothing.
yea,and my father.
i go;and towards three or four oclock look for the news that the guildhall affords.
if eer your grace had speech with man so poor,hear me one word.
i know this is a joyful trouble to you;but yet tis one.
yet i protest,for his right noble mind,illustrious virtue,and honourable carriage,had his necessity made use of me,i would have put my wealth into donation,and the best half should have returned to him,so much i love his heart.
what if i strayd no farther,but chose here?
mother,for love of grace,lay not that flattering unction to your soul that not your trespass,but my madness speaks.
by jupiter,forgot!
richard,where art thou?
what,art thou hurt?
to have an open ear,a quick eye,and a nimble hand,is necessary for a cut-purse;a good nose is requisite also,to smell out work for the other senses.
it lies in you,my lord,to bring me in some grace,for you did bring me out.
o monstrous!
here comes the noble antony.
when came this to you?
a plague of all cowards,i say still.
words pay no debts,give her deeds;but shell bereave you o th deeds too,if she call your activity in question.
but hercules himself must yield to odds;and many strokes,though with a little axe,hews down and fell the hardest-timbered oak.
and i another,so weary with disasters,tuggd with fortune,that i would set my life on any chance,to mend it or be rid ont.
whats to do?
what pushes are we wenches driven to when fifteen once has found us!
see these letters delivered,put the liveries to making,and desire gratiano to come anon to my lodging.
tell bolingbrokefor yon methinks he stands that every stride he makes upon my land is dangerous treason.
these are but switches to em.
i should knock you first,and then i know after who comes by the worst.
nay,then i see our wars will turn unto a peaceful comic sport,when ladies crave to be encounterd with.
i have long dreamt of such a kind of man,so surfeit-swelld,so old,and so profane;but,being awaked,i do despise my dream.
come to me at your convenient leisure,and you shall know how i speed;and the conclusion shall be crowned with your enjoying her.
so it is said,my noble lord;but therefore came not my friend nor i.
were it not pity that this goodly boy should lose his birthright by his fathers fault,and long hereafter say unto his child,what my great-grandfather and grandsire got,my careless father fondly gave away?
go,and bring them.
your reason?
sin from my lips?
in the delaying death.
what said northumberland as touching richmond?
whither,my lord?
come,hold your peace.
where great additions swells,and virtue none,it is a dropsied honour.
my lord of salisbury,we have stayed ten days and hardly kept our countrymen together,and yet we hear no tidings from the king.
i say i shall be with her between ten and eleven,for at that time the jealous rascally knave her husband will be forth.
let not my love be called idolatry,nor my beloved as an idol show,since all alike my songs and praises be to one,of one,still such,and ever so.
when he breathed,he was a man.
but thats all one:omittance is no quittance.
stay,on thy peril;i alone will go.
i cannot tell what you have done;i have,beshrew mine eyes fort!
there,there,hortensio,will you any wife?
let sorrow split my heart if ever i did hate thee or thy father.
there was nothing done to her once.
when that is known,and golden time convents,a solemn combination shall be made of our dear souls.
i cannot think you are my son.
that which upholdeth him that thee upholds,his honour.
this cannot save you.
i prythee,boy,run to the senate-house;stay not to answer me,but get thee gone.
whats that?
that not a heart which in his level came could scape the hail of his all-hurting aim,showing fair nature is both kind and tame;and veild in them,did win whom he would maim.
i never practised it.
i must go buy spices for our sheep-shearing.
i see what crosses my attempt will bring;i know what thorns the growing rose defends;i think the honey guarded with a sting;all this beforehand counsel comprehends.
may we see them?
so they were bleeding new,my lord,theres no meat like em.
i would wart might have gone,sir.
was this before the king returnd?
sir hugh send-a you?
my soul doth tell me hero is belied;and that shall claudio know;so shall the prince,and all of them that thus dishonour her.
what,a feast,a feast?
why,no,i say.
o my good lord.
bear me to prison,where i am committed.
stop,stop!
my mothers son,sir.
if twere a substance you would sure deceive it and make it but a shadow,as i am.
if he had spoke,the wolf would leave his prey,and never fright the silly lamb that day.
to see great hercules whipping a gig,and profound solomon to tune a jig,and nestor play at push-pin with the boys,and critic timon laugh at idle toys.
it shall be so,disdain they neer so much.
forward,i pray,since we have come so far,and be it moon,or sun,or what you please;and if you please to call it a rush-candle,henceforth i vow it shall be so for me.
you have a holy father,a graceful gentleman;against whose person,so sacred as it is,i have done sin,for which the heavens,taking angry note,have left me issueless.
thou sayst his meat was saucd with thy upbraidings.
do you find your patience so predominant in your nature,that you can let this go?
i tremble at it.
o how her eyes and tears did lend and borrow;her eyes seen in the tears,tears in her eye;both crystals,where they viewd each others sorrow,sorrow that friendly sighs sought still to dry;but like a stormy day,now wind,now rain,sighs dry her cheeks,tears make them wet again.
belovd of me,and that my deeds shall prove.
i knew your father;these hands are not more like.
that way he takes,i purpose is my way too.
as for proof now:a purse of gold most resolutely snatched on monday night,and most dissolutely spent on tuesday morning,got with swearing lay by and spent with crying bring in;now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder,and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows.
who is conductor of his people?
we will not fail.
o monstrous!
ay,ay,you writ them,sir,at my request,but i will none of them.
that done,our day of marriage shall be yours,one feast,one house,one mutual happiness.
you have broke his pate with your bowl.
but whether unripe years did want conceit,or he refusd to take her figurd proffer,the tender nibbler would not touch the bait,but smile and jest at every gentle offer.
let me entreat you.
sure theres some wonder in this handkerchief,i am most unhappy in the loss of it.
if i fly,martius,hollo me like a hare.
thats most certain,and with you;next month with us.
doth not my wit become me rarely!
therefore,jew,though justice be thy plea,consider this,that in the course of justice none of us should see salvation.
i humbly thank your highness.
well,befall what will befall,ill jest a twelvemonth in an hospital.
open them,boy.
be not,as is our fangled world,a garment nobler than that it covers.
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing his new doublet before easter?
i would not have things cool.
i am no villain.
whoeer i woo,myself would be his wife.
why,she that bears the bow.
tis time to speak.
ill fit thee.
for if of joy,being altogether wanting,it doth remember me the more of sorrow;or if of grief,being altogether had,it adds more sorrow to my want of joy.
the king hath many marching in his coats.
come in with me,thersites.
come,sir,it wants a twelvemonth and a day,and then twill end.
master,has my fellow tranio stoln your clothes?
my brother he is in elysium.
where were you born?
one,her hairs were gold;crystal the others eyes.
the sweet birds,o,how they sing!
take in the topsail.
not that i know.
i pray you,sir,take patience.
put up thy sword betime,or ill so maul you and your toasting-iron that you shall think the devil is come from hell.
ill do anything now that is virtuous;but i am out of the road of rutting for ever.
till when,the which i hope shall neer be seen,your grace is welcome to our town and us.
thus can my love excuse the slow offence,of my dull bearer,when from thee i speed,from where thou art,why should i haste me thence?
sirrah,can you with a grace deliver up a supplication?
i am sure you both of you remember me.
she hath been a suitor to me for her brother,cut off by course of justice.
yes,if you love me,sir.
nay,you need not to stop your nose,sir.
o,haste thee to the peers,throw this report on their incensed rage,and make them tame to their obedience!
has the king this?
that eyeless head of thine was first framd flesh to raise my fortunes.
either your unparagond mistress is dead,or shes outprizd by a trifle.
sound trumpets.
come,mine armour,eros!
lets whip these stragglers oer the seas again,lash hence these overweening rags of france,these famished beggars,weary of their lives,who,but for dreaming on this fond exploit,for want of means,poor rats,had hanged themselves.
what news,my lord?
note her a little further.
cousin,farewell,and,uncle,bid him so.
but if thou fall,oh then imagine this,the earth,in love with thee,thy footing trips,and all is but to rob thee of a kiss.
here,my mad boys,have at ye.
another way i have to man my haggard,to make her come,and know her keepers call,that is,to watch her,as we watch these kites that bate and beat,and will not be obedient.
write me a prologue,and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm with our swords,and that pyramus is not killed indeed;and for the more better assurance,tell them that i pyramus am not pyramus but bottom the weaver.
which done,she took the fruits of my advice,and he,repulsed,a short tale to make fell into a sadness,then into a fast,thence to a watch,thence into a weakness,thence to a lightness,and,by this declension,into the madness wherein now he raves,and all we wail for.
how say you,signior gremio?
is this an hour for temporal affairs,ha?
petit monsieur,que dit-il?
pray thee,peace.
he leaves his friends to dignify them more;i leave myself,my friends,and all for love.
why,so didst thou.
one cried,god bless us!
then,if sickly ears,deafed with the clamours of their own dear groans,will hear your idle scorns,continue then,and i will have you and that fault withal;but if they will not,throw away that spirit,and i shall find you empty of that fault,right joyful of your reformation.
for the rest of the worthies?
hes very near the truth in this.
perhaps some merchant hath invited him,and from the mart hes somewhere gone to dinner.
whats the news with thee?
thou shalt know the man by the athenian garments he hath on.
it is the wittiest partition that ever i heard discourse,my lord.
but,hit or miss,our projects life this shape of sense assumes ajax employd plucks down achilles plumes.
anon,anon.
what should i think?
song who is silvia?
peace thou,and give king henry leave to speak.
this is the very painting of your fear:this is the air-drawn dagger which you said,led you to duncan.
i shall no more to sea,to sea,here shall i die ashorethis is a very scurvy tune to sing at a mans funeral.
let thine own hands take away her life;i shall give thee opportunity at milford haven;she hath my letter for the purpose;where,if thou fear to strike,and to make me certain it is done,thou art the pandar to her dishonour,and equally to me disloyal.
the life thou gavst me first was lost and done,till with thy warlike sword,despite of fate,to my determined time thou gavst new date.
hes gone into smithfield to buy your worship a horse.
ha,my brave emperor,shall we dance now the egyptian bacchanals and celebrate our drink?
madam,youre best consider.
marry,i tell thee it is not meet that i should be sad,now my father is sick;albeit i could tell to thee,as to one it pleases me,for fault of a better,to call my friend,i could be sad,and sad indeed too.
why,lady,love hath twenty pair of eyes.
ill about and drive away the vulgar from the streets;so do you too,where you perceive them thick.
and so thrive richard as thy foes may fall!
they are,my lord,without the palace gate.
quoniamhe seemeth in minority,ergoi come with this apology.
the kings son have i landed by himself,whom i left cooling of the air with sighs in an odd angle of the isle,and sitting,his arms in this sad knot.
reach me thy hand,that i may help thee out,or,wanting strength to do thee so much good,i may be plucked into the swallowing womb of this deep pit,poor bassianus grave.
in that you brook it ill,it makes him worse.
what is your will?
theres no man in the world more bound tos mother,yet here he lets me prate like one i th stocks.
theres my gauntlet;ill prove it on a giant.
i pray you,sir,is it your will to make a stale of me amongst these mates?
he should have showed us his marks of merit,wounds received fors country.
put off that gown,trinculo;by this hand,ill have that gown.
are not you palamon?
so is mine.
ah,rosencrantz.
i will go.
though i think i never shall enjoy her,yet ill preserve the honour of affection,and die for her,make death a devil.
to prison,till fit time of law and course of direct session call thee to answer.
to bedlam with him!
know the glove!
thou villain capulet!
i sometimes do believe and sometimes do not,as those that fear they hope,and know they fear.
i should know that voice:it should bebut he is drowned;and these are devils.
what,makst thou me a dullard in this act?
i speak not be thou true as fearing thee,for i will throw my glove to death himself that theres no maculation in thy heart;but be thou true say i to fashion in my sequent protestation:be thou true,and i will see thee.
as you think meet.
what say you to it?
this by calphurnias dream is signified.
this secret is so weighty,twill require a strong faith to conceal it.
it cannot be the volsces dare break with us.
thee ill chase hence,thou wolf in sheeps array.
ill put myself in poor and mean attire,and with a kind of umber smirch my face.
this attempt i am soldier to,and will abide it with a princes courage.
shalls to the capitol?
he is so plaguy proud that the death tokens of it cry no recovery.
he comes to kill my heart.
and twere the cheaper way.
ay,ay,he said four.
and so the earl of armagnac may do,because he is near kinsman unto charles.
then let the mutinous winds strike the proud cedars gainst the fiery sun,murdering impossibility to make what cannot be slight work.
i once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus:wonder of nature,i have heard a sonnet begin so to ones mistress.
what is she?
then there is another thing:we must have a wall in the great chamber;for pyramus and thisbe,says the story,did talk through the chink of a wall.
be not afraid;she shall not harm thee,helena.
i mean the lord protector.
and tis the very riches of thyself that now i aim at.
how like the empress and her sons you are!
ay,sir,but while the grass growsthe proverb is something musty.
to the restyet my chief humour is for a tyrant.
heaven bless thee!
but to the point.
but was not this nigh shore?
what,john rugby,john!
he would not flatter neptune for his trident or jove fors power to thunder.
must i repent,i cannot do it better than in gyves,desird more than constraind.
love her,angelo.
i humbly thank you;well,well,well.
that is some satire,keen and critical,not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.
thou knowst where i will tarry.
sir valentine!
no worse than they are backbitten,sir,for they have marvellous foul linen.
o had thy mother borne so hard a mind,she had not brought forth thee,but died unkind.
i would fain have armd today,but my nell would not have it so.
was i for this nigh wracked upon the sea and twice by awkward wind from englands bank drove back again unto my native clime?
upon his many protestations to marry me when his wife was dead,i blush to say it,he won me.
why scornst thou at sir robert?
the worst of all her scholars,my good lord.
then thus:of many good i think him best.
so kind a father!
with what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
no,my dearest love,i would not for the world.
and when the tale is told,bid her be judge whether bassanio had not once a love.
there greet in silence,as the dead are wont,and sleep in peace,slain in your countrys wars.
justice,most gracious duke;o,grant me justice!
even so.
by any means.
you to your former honour i bequeath;your patience and your virtue well deserves it.
when many times the captive grecian falls,even in the fan and wind of your fair sword,you bid them rise and live.
what mean you,sir?
how runs the stream?
i am directed by you.
convey them with safe conduct.
the church!
i do allow this wen to be as familiar with me as my dog,and he holds his place,for look you how he writes.
a million.
see,magic of bounty,all these spirits thy power hath conjured to attend!
take heed(dear heart)of this large privilege,the hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge.
your love says,like an honest gentleman,where is your mother?
a noble duke,in nature as in name.
re-enter antiochus.
calchas shall have what he requests of us.
i;all i kept were knaves to serve in meat to villains.
then banished is death mistermd.
now he importunes him to tell it oer.
you know neither me,yourselves,nor anything.
first note that he is near you in descent,and should you fall,he is the next will mount.
come,come.
o wondrous thing!
i will embrace your offer.
the miserable have no other medicine but only hope.
ratcliffe,thyself,or catesby.
sir,his wife some two months since fled from his house.
hector bade ask.
you to lord lucius;to lord lucullus you,i hunted with his honour today;you to sempronius.
a hateful truth.
ay,kennel,puddle,sink,whose filth and dirt troubles the silver spring where england drinks;now will i dam up this thy yawning mouth for swallowing the treasure of the realm.
can i do this,and cannot get a crown?
who art thou?
but as i said,on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen;that shall she,marry;i remember it well.
when my cue comes,call me,and i will answer.
i am thinking what i shall say i have provided for him.
a feather will turn the scale.
take notice,lords:he has a loyal breast,for you have seen him opent.
the cat is grey.
not an inch further.
well said,adversity!
go out and cry a mutiny.
were not i thine only nurse,i would say thou hadst suckd wisdom from thy teat.
close,in the name of jesting!
there is a lady of verona here whom i affect;but she is nice,and coy,and nought esteems my aged eloquence.
this said,impatience chokes her pleading tongue,and swelling passion doth provoke a pause;red cheeks and fiery eyes blaze forth her wrong;being judge in love,she cannot right her cause.
you will set cock-a-hoop,youll be the man!
why,then your ambition makes it one;tis too narrow for your mind.
i beseech you all be better known to this gentleman,whom i commend to you as a noble friend of mine.
beshrew his hand,i scarce could understand it.
her mistress she doth give demure good-morrow,with soft slow tongue,true mark of modesty,and sorts a sad look to her ladys sorrow,for why her face wore sorrows livery,but durst not ask of her audaciously why her two suns were cloud-eclipsed so,nor why her fair cheeks over-washed with woe.
sweet love renew thy force,be it not said thy edge should blunter be than appetite,which but to-day by feeding is allayed,to-morrow sharpened in his former might.
i can say little more than i have studied,and that questions out of my part.
there if i grow,the harvest is your own.
anon she hears them chant it lustily,and all in haste she coasteth to the cry.
count,take of me my daughter,and with her my fortunes:his grace hath made the match,and all grace say amen to it!
for do but note a wild and wanton herd or race of youthful and unhandled colts,fetching mad bounds,bellowing and neighing loud,which is the hot condition of their blood,if they but hear perchance a trumpet sound,or any air of music touch their ears,you shall perceive them make a mutual stand,their savage eyes turnd to a modest gaze by the sweet power of music:therefore the poet did feign that orpheus drew trees,stones,and floods,since naught so stockish,hard,and full of rage,but music for the time doth change his nature.
set him before me;let me see his face.
ill see their trial first.
i pray weep not:if you have poison for me,i will drink it.
now let me say good night,and so say you;if you will say so,you shall have a kiss.
read,and tell me how far tis thither.
the proud control of fierce and bloody war,to enforce these rights so forcibly withheld.
silence that dreadful bell,it frights the isle from her propriety.
my state now will but mock me.
my lord,when you went onward on this ended action,i looked upon her with a soldiers eye,that likd,but had a rougher task in hand than to drive liking to the name of love;but now i am returnd,and that war-thoughts have left their places vacant,in their rooms come thronging soft and delicate desires,all prompting me how fair young hero is,saying,i likd her ere i went to wars.
what lets but one may enter at her window?
tis expressly against the law of arms.
what a life is this that your poor friends must woo your company?
i chafe you,if i tarry;let me go.
youre lovd,sir;they that least lend it you shall lack you first.
for my part,ill not trouble thee with words.
zounds,how has he the leisure to be sick in such a justling time?
hector was stirring early.
and take one with you?
what a lack-brain is this!
i think this coming summer the king of sicilia means to pay bohemia the visitation which he justly owes him.
what ist thou canst demand?
in great commanders grace and majesty you might behold,triumphing in their faces;in youth,quick bearing and dexterity;and here and there the painter interlaces pale cowards marching on with trembling paces,which heartless peasants did so well resemble,that one would swear he saw them quake and tremble.
my cousin means signior benedick of padua.
theres many a man alive that hath outlived the love o th people;yea,i th selfsame state stands many a father with his child.
i am glad of it.
not one word more of the consumed time.
yes,poll!
you shall never take her without her answer unless you take her without her tongue.
not black in my mind,though yellow in my legs.
they have said their prayers,and they stay for death.
your leafy screens throw down,and show like those you are.
heart and goodwill you might,but surely,master,not a rag of money.
why,let it be so.
here i lay,and thus i bore my point.
o my lord!
tis as easy as lying:govern these ventages with your finger and thumb,give it breath with your mouth,and it will discourse most eloquent music.
god b wi ye.
my lord protector will come this way by and by,and then we may deliver our supplications in the quill.
and we will mend thy wages.
i long till edward fall by wars mischance for mocking marriage with a dame of france.
o,mickle is the powerful grace that lies in plants,herbs,stones,and their true qualities.
his garment!
well,the best is,she hath no teeth to bite.
antonio,gratify this gentleman,for in my mind you are much bound to him.
away,sir corporal nym.
monster ingratitude!
yes,being kept together,and put to use.
well then,if ever i thank any man,ill thank you;but that they call compliment is like th encounter of two dog-apes.
why,my good cousin?
why,assure thee,lucius,twill vex thy soul to hear what i shall speak;for i must talk of murders,rapes,and massacres,acts of black night,abominable deeds,complots of mischief,treason,villainies,ruthful to hear,yet piteously performed.
a cry more tuneable was never hollad to,nor cheerd with horn,in crete,in sparta,nor in thessaly.
one step i have advancd thee;if thou dost as this instructs thee,thou dost make thy way to noble fortunes:know thou this,that men are as the time is;to be tender-minded does not become a sword.
may this be borne as if his traitorous sons,that died by law for murder of our brother,have by my means been butchered wrongfully?
knock,knock.
lets see.
your crowns awry;ill mend it and then play.
you have put him down,lady,you have put him down.
whats his fault?
what ho,my liege!
abhorred slave,which any print of goodness wilt not take,being capable of all ill!
could curses kill,as doth the mandrakes groan,i would invent as bitter searching terms,as curst,as harsh and horrible to hear,delivered strongly through my fixed teeth,with full as many signs of deadly hate,as lean-faced envy in her loathsome cave.
in truth,i know it is a sin to be a mocker,but he!
he burns with bashful shame,she with her tears doth quench the maiden burning of his cheeks;then with her windy sighs and golden hairs to fan and blow them dry again she seeks.
to thee?
heaven and fortune bar me happy hours!
many a time and oft have you climbd up to walls and battlements,to towers and windows,yea,to chimney tops,your infants in your arms,and there have sat the livelong day with patient expectation,to see great pompey pass the streets of rome.
men and lads,stain all your edges on me.
here comes the general.
for much imaginary work was there,conceit deceitful,so compact,so kind,that for achilles image stood his spear griped in an armed hand;himself,behind,was left unseen,save to the eye of mind.
nay,nothing,master moth,but what they look upon.
too well what love women to men may owe.
fortune at you dimpled her cheek with smiles.
the undeserver may sleep,when the man of action is called on.
at sea!
can you tell,cousin?
this is unlikely;he and aufidius can no more atone than violentst contrariety.
it grieves me much more for what i cannot do for you,than what befalls myself.
what treachery was usd?
with comfort go;hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe.
a peace is of the nature of a conquest;for then both parties nobly are subdued,and neither party loser.
do you persuade yourself that i respect you?
yes,truly is he,and condemned upont.
cowards father cowards and base things sire base.
we have.
and now shes going to my wife,and falstaffs boy with her.
come,come,a hand from either.
be merciful,say death;for exile hath more terror in his look,much more than death.
gentlemen,god save you!
to an ox,were nothing:he is both ox and ass.
come i too late?
away,my masters,trouble us no more,but join in friendship,as your lords have done.
sir,it is three days since i saw the prince.
where is she and her son?
signior brabantio,ho!
endeavour thyself to sleep,and leave thy vain bibble-babble.
yet this before my fathers majesty i am content that he shall take the odds of his great name and estimation,and will,to save the blood on either side,try fortune with him in a single fight.
i have outstood my time,which is material to th tender of our present.
ill show you troilus anon.
trebonius doth desire you to oer-read,at your best leisure,this his humble suit.
but what at full i know,thou knowst no part;i knowing all my peril,thou no art.
first,as you know,my house within the city is richly furnished with plate and gold:basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands;my hangings all of tyrian tapestry;in ivory coffers i have stuffd my crowns;in cypress chests my arras counterpoints,costly apparel,tents,and canopies,fine linen,turkey cushions bossd with pearl,valance of venice gold in needlework;pewter and brass,and all things that belong to house or housekeeping:then,at my farm i have a hundred milch-kine to the pail,six score fat oxen standing in my stalls,and all things answerable to this portion.
i never hurt you:you drew your sword upon me without cause,but i bespake you fair and hurt you not.
i would learn that;for by the marks of sovereignty,knowledge and reason,i should be false persuaded i had daughters.
one ons fathers moods.
those wicked creatures yet do look well-favourd when others are more wicked;not being the worst stands in some rank of praise.
you had musty victual,and he hath holp to eat it;he is a very valiant trencher-man;he hath an excellent stomach.
the princes both make high account of youfor they account his head upon the bridge.
so,by being too curst,god will send you no horns?
aficofor the phrase!
but now he throws that shallow habit by,wherein deep policy did him disguise,and armed his long-hid wits advisedly,to check the tears in collatinus eyes.
to his bones sweet sleep;content to you.
but kiss;one kiss!
thou injurious tribune!
no,do not.
at your birth our grandam earth,having this distemprature,in passion shook.
why comst thou in such haste?
bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,that nothing sung but death to us and ours;now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound,and his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
what stronger breastplate than a heart untainted?
freeze,freeze,thou bitter sky,that dost not bite so nigh as benefits forgot.
ill go see if the bear be gone from the gentleman,and how much he hath eaten.
indeed,i am in the waist two yards about,but i am now about no waste;i am about thrift.
the pleasure that some fathers feed upon is my strict fasti mean my childrens looks,and therein fasting,hast thou made me gaunt.
fellow,commend my service to her beauty;tell her i have chastisd the amorous trojan,and am her knight by proof.
no,wench;it eats and sleeps and hath such senses as we have,such.
a woman i forswore,but i will prove,thou being a goddess,i forswore not thee.
and truly,as i hope to live.
look,where he comes.
unarm thee,go;and doubt thou not,brave boy,ill stand today for thee and me and troy.
now play me nestor;hem,and stroke thy beard,as he being drest to some oration.
god save you,brother.
i am mightily abusd.
not i.
this cheers my heart,to see your forwardness.
no,master slender is let the boys leave to play.
unless another,as like hermione as is her picture,affront his eye.
o the good gods!
as many,worthy lady,to yourself.
but you are no such man.
vouchsafe,thou wonder,to alight thy steed,and rein his proud head to the saddle-bow;if thou wilt deign this favour,for thy meed a thousand honey secrets shalt thou know:here come and sit,where never serpent hisses,and being set,ill smother thee with kisses.
thanks for your pains.
i am the sea.
all places yield to him ere he sits down,and the nobility of rome are his;the senators and patricians love him too.
ah,cut my lace asunder that my pent heart may have some scope to beat,or else i swoon with this dead-killing news!
but let my favours hide thy mangled face;and even in thy behalf ill thank myself for doing these fair rites of tenderness.
it is not so.
would they make peace?
sir,you have done this in the fear of god,very religiously;and,as a certain father saith sir,tell not me of the father,i do fear colourable colours.
alas,poor duke!
the clock struck nine when i did send the nurse,in half an hour she promised to return.
what,are you merry,knights?
where did you study all this goodly speech?
die where thou hast lived;quicken with kissing.
if you knew how much they do import,you would make haste.
o,i believe with him,in argument of praise,or to the worth of the great count himself,she is too mean to have her name repeated;all her deserving is a reserved honesty,and that i have not heard examind.
throw me in the channel?
you have an excellent armour;but let my horse have his due.
i pray you,think you question with the jew.
the earl of westmoreland,seven thousand strong,is marching hitherwards,with him prince john.
go on before;ill talk with this good fellow.
that we our largest bounty may extend where nature doth with merit challenge.
whats yours?
i am a messenger.
i will trot tomorrow a mile,and my way shall be paved with english faces.
my lord?
tribunes,patricians,citizens,what,ho!
so soon was she along,as he was down,each leaning on their elbows and their hips:now doth she stroke his cheek,now doth he frown,and gins to chide,but soon she stops his lips,and kissing speaks,with lustful language broken,if thou wilt chide,thy lips shall never open.
what tidings can you tell me of my lord?
commend me to thy lord;withal say that the queen hath heartily consented he should espouse elizabeth her daughter.
she lifted the princess from the earth,and so locks her in embracing,as if she would pin her to her heart,that she might no more be in danger of losing.
nay,a rubs himself with civet:can you smell him out by that?
you ever-gentle gods,take my breath from me;let not my worser spirit tempt me again to die before you please.
he saw me,and yielded;that i may justly say,with the hook-nosed fellow of rome,i came,saw,and overcame.
good even.
madam,came nothing else along with that?
the devil damn thee black,thou cream-facd loon!
lets have your company;or,if you please,haste there before us.
faith,tell me now in earnest,how came falstaffs sword so hacked?
i must have liberty withal,as large a charter as the wind,to blow on whom i please,for so fools have.
hark how her sighs doth flow!
that you would love yourself,and in that love not unconsidered leave your honour nor the dignity of your office,is the point of my petition.
host,will you go?
please you,repeat their names,ill show my mind according to my shallow simple skill.
well,if you be a king crowned with content,your crown content and you must be contented to go along with us;for,as we think,you are the king king edward hath deposed;and we his subjects,sworn in all allegiance,will apprehend you as his enemy.
thus,like the formal vice,iniquity,i moralize two meanings in one word.
zounds,he dies!
yet i wish,sir i mean for your particularyou had not joined in commission with him,but either had borne the action of yourself or else to him had left it solely.
indeed,he is so.
nay,go not from us thus.
o,your sweet queen!
well could he ride,and often men would say that horse his mettle from his rider takes,proud of subjection,noble by the sway,what rounds,what bounds,what course,what stop he makes!
to whom?
complain unto the duke of this indignity.
for my part,i am so attird in wonder,i know not what to say.
if you like upon report the soil,the profit,and this kind of life,i will your very faithful feeder be,and buy it with your gold right suddenly.
the violets,cowslips,and the primroses,bear to my closet.
may it please you,lords,to grant the commons suit?
your will?
those linen cheeks of thine are counsellors to fear.
bring me to octavius.
me,ant shall please you;i am antony dull.
is there not a ballad,boy,of the king and the beggar?
the princely warwick,and the nevilles all,whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain,as hating thee are rising up in arms.
he says so,tranio.
best state,contentless,hath a distracted and most wretched being,worse than the worst,content.
i know repentant tears ensue the deed,reproach,disdain,and deadly enmity;yet strike i to embrace mine infamy.
and hes gone.
den it sall also content me.
you shall see now,in very sincerity of fear and cold heart,will he to the king,and lay open all our proceedings.
nerissa,cheer yond stranger,bid her welcome.
if that his majesty would aught with us,we shall express our duty in his eye;and let him know so.
thou hast undone our mother.
bring forth the body of old salisbury,and here advance it in the market-place,the middle centre of this cursed town.
you have an unspeakable comfort of your young prince mamillius.
then had my prize been less,and so more equal ballasting to thee,posthumus.
under king harry.
good morrow,casca.
how say you now?
father,i am glad you are come,give me your present to one master bassanio,who indeed gives rare new liveries.
no,heaven so speed me in my time to come!
where a man may serve seven years for the loss of a leg,and have not money enough in the end to buy him a wooden one?
not one now,to mock your own grinning?
borachio,one!
when alls done,you look but on a stool.
ever since you loved her.
no,caius martius,ill lean upon one crutch and fight with th other ere stay behind this business.
this making of christians will raise the price of hogs;if we grow all to be pork-eaters,we shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money.
how cheerst thou,jessica?
he hath no daughters,sir.
lets follow;tis not fit thus to obey him.
where i find him,were it at home,upon my brothers guard,even there,against the hospitable canon,would i wash my fierce hand ins heart.
thats two of his weapons.
sirs,take your places and be vigilant.
to cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
this life is most jolly.
that he did in the general bosom reign of young,of old,and sexes both enchanted,to dwell with him in thoughts,or to remain in personal duty,following where he haunted,consents bewitchd,ere he desire,have granted,and dialogued for him what he would say,askd their own wills,and made their wills obey.
in choosing for yourself you showed your judgment,which being shallow,you shall give me leave to play the broker in mine own behalf;and to that end i shortly mind to leave you.
ay,my lord,even so as it is here set down.
i know the glove is a glove.
that cannot choose but amaze him.
of nothing so much as that i am not like timon.
if they speak but truth of her,these hands shall tear her;if they wrong her honour,the proudest of them shall well hear of it.
but,o what shall i say to thee,lord scroop?
i understand her signs.
if not,why cease you till you are so?
among the crowds i th abbey,where a finger could not be wedged in more.
not stingless too.
farewell,sweet madam;but hark you,margaret,no princely commendations to my king?
from him i have express commandment that thou nor none of thine shall be let in.
on what occasion god he knows,not i,the queen your mother and your brother york have taken sanctuary.
as youll have her.
hold up thy head,vile scot,or thou art like never to hold it up again!
so just is god,to right the innocent.
marry,sir,i carried mistress silvia the dog you bade me.
fairly offerd.
what are you?
my masters man.
what the declind is,he shall as soon read in the eyes of others as feel in his own fall;for men,like butterflies,show not their mealy wings but to the summer;and not a man for being simply man hath any honour,but honour for those honours that are without him,as place,riches,and favour,prizes of accident,as oft as merit;which when they fall,as being slippery standers,the love that leand on them as slippery too,doth one pluck down another,and together die in the fall.
you are going now to look upon a sun that strengthens what it looks on;there you have a vantage oer me.
say there be;yet nature is made better by no mean but nature makes that mean.
entreat her not the worse in that i pray you use her well.
a cittern-head.
by th mass,so did we all.
no,good swabber,i am to hull here a little longer.
god and good angels fight on richmonds side;and richard fall in height of all his pride.
no greater heart in thee?
thats not my fault;hes master of my state.
thou art as foolish christian creatures as i would desires.
to my lord protector.
i thank you:i am not of many words,but i thank you.
i would entreat you rather to put on your boldest suit of mirth,for we have friends that purpose merriment.
what an ass it is!
do thou but think what tis to cram a maw or clothe a back from such a filthy vice.
thy life is dear,for all that life can rate worth name of life in thee hath estimate:youth,beauty,wisdom,courage,all that happiness and prime can happy call.
if they do see thee,they will murder thee.
you and you are heart in heart.
oxford,oxford,for lancaster!
if he may be conveniently delivered,i would he were,for i am now so far in offence with my niece that i cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot.
lets fetch him off or make remain alike.
i live with bread like you,feel want,taste grief,need friends.
is the world as it was,man?
dear kate,you and i cannot be confined within the weak list of a countrys fashion.
he shall pay for him that hath him,and that soundly.
this is my king,york,i do not mistake;but thou mistakes me much to think i do.
lay out,lay out.
anon,anon,sir.
yonder,sure,they are coming.
perpetual durance?
speak,man.
dear gentlewoman,how fares our gracious lady?
but now tis odds beyond arithmetic,and manhood is called foolery when it stands against a falling fabric.
come hither.
you are a great deal abusd in too bold a persuasion,and i doubt not you sustain what yare worthy of by your attempt.
i leave it to your honourable survey,and your honour to your hearts content;which i wish may always answer your own wish and the worlds hopeful expectation.
then i loved him,extremely loved him,infinitely loved him!
or is it fear that makes him close his eyes?
those that have known the earth so full of faults.
tis not unknown to you,madam,i am a poor fellow.
why might not you,my lord,receive attendance from those that she calls servants,or from mine?
ay,ay,prithee now.
dream often so,and never false.
so full of shapes is fancy,that it alone is high fantastical.
that this treason were not;or not i the detector!
item,she is slow in words.
well said,master silence.
there is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man.
i marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:theyll have me whipped for speaking true;thoult have me whipped for lying;and sometimes i am whipped for holding my peace.
would you desire better sympathy?
to yourself.
i shall fall like a bright exhalation in the evening,and no man see me more.
tell my lady i claim the promise for her heavenly picture.
feel you your legs?
but tell not me,i know antonio is sad to think upon his merchandise.
not i.
i see we still did meet each others man,and i was taen for him,and he for me,and thereupon these errors are arose.
i see mens judgments are a parcel of their fortunes,and things outward do draw the inward quality after them to suffer all alike.
i had well hoped thou wouldst have denied beatrice,that i might have cudgelled thee out of thy single life,to make thee a double-dealer;which,out of question,thou wilt be,if my cousin do not look exceeding narrowly to thee.
merely awry.
lo,now my glory smeared in dust and blood!
now must we to her window,and give some evening music to her ear.
here in her hairs the painter plays the spider,and hath woven a golden mesh tentrap the hearts of men faster than gnats in cobwebs.
i have done.
farewell,faint-hearted and degenerate king,in whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
gaunt on a couch;the duke of york and others standing by him.
behold these talents of their hair,with twisted metal amorously empleachd,i have receivd from many a several fair,their kind acceptance weepingly beseechd,with th annexions of fair gems enrichd,and deep-braind sonnets that did amplify each stones dear nature,worth and quality.
theres no true drop of blood in him to be truly touched with love.
he hath assembled bocchus,the king of libya;archelaus of cappadocia;philadelphos,king of paphlagonia;the thracian king,adallas;king manchus of arabia;king of pont;herod of jewry;mithridates,king of comagene;polemon and amyntas,the kings of mede and lycaonia,with a more larger list of sceptres.
who does he accuse?
three proper young men of excellent growth and presence.
the good andronicus,patron of virtue,romes best champion,successful in the battles that he fights,with honour and with fortune is returned from where he circumscribed with his sword and brought to yoke the enemies of rome.
you mistake,sir;i am sure no man hath any quarrel to me.
lair et feu?
be sure of thattwo other husbands.
thou comst not,caius,now for tribute;that the britons have razd out,though with the loss of many a bold one,whose kinsmen have made suit that their good souls may be appeasd with slaughter of you their captives,which ourself have granted;so think of your estate.
do you bite your thumb at us,sir?
juno and ceres whisper seriously,theres something else to do:hush,and be mute,or else our spell is marrd.
by heaven,you do me wrong.
from north to south,austria and france shoot in each others mouth:ill stir them to it.
i know my uncle york hath power enough to serve our turn.
lewis,the dauphin.
speak-a your tale.
i will not look upon your masters lines.
well,your old vice still:mistake the word.
for pity now she can no more detain him;the poor fool prays her that he may depart:she is resolvd no longer to restrain him,bids him farewell,and look well to her heart,the which by cupids bow she doth protest,he carries thence encaged in his breast.
ah,cousin york,would thy best friends did know how it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
o rash false heat,wrapped in repentant cold,thy hasty spring still blasts and neer grows old!
if judgment lie in them,then so do we,because we ever have been near the king.
how intend you,practised?
my lord,from head to foot.
know you where you are?
thou makst the vestal violate her oath;thou blowst the fire when temperance is thawed;thou smotherst honesty,thou murderst troth,thou foul abettor,thou notorious bawd!
both of you know banquo was your enemy.
but to the court!
i prithee,let me bring thee where crabs grow;and i with my long nails will dig thee pig-nuts;show thee a jays nest,and instruct thee how to snare the nimble marmoset;ill bring thee to clustering filberts,and sometimes ill get thee young scamels from the rock.
this jealousy is for a precious creature:as shes rare,must it be great;and,as his persons mighty,must it be violent;and as he does conceive he is dishonourd by a man which ever professd to him,why,his revenges must in that be made more bitter.
i love benedick well,and i could wish he would modestly examine himself,to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady.
tis pity that thou livst to walk where any honest men resort.
now please you wit the epitaph is for marina writ by wicked dionyza.
first know thou,i begot him on the empress.
i charge thee,be not thou more grieved than i am.
the town is empty;on the brow o the sea stand ranks of people,and they cry a sail!
wait well,sir,upon your mistress.
i am sorry that i am deceivd in him.
we did believe no less.
to verona.
yet so my fancy may be satisfied,and peace established between these realms.
tis a strange serpent.
and know you,lord,ill nothing do on charge:to her own worth she shall be prizd.
bless thy five wits!
noble sir,if you have told dianas altar true,this is your wife.
her name is margery,indeed.
help,master,help!
why then,i think cassios an honest man.
thou crusty batch of nature,whats the news?
prince dauphin,you shall stay with us in rouen.
plague ont,an i thought he had been valiant,and so cunning in fence,id have seen him damned ere id have challenged him.
gentle my lord,let me intreat you speak the former language.
it likes me well.
ah,joan,this kills thy fathers heart outright!
hence and stand aloof.
madam,i have been bold to trouble you;but since your ladyship is not at leisure,ill sort some other time to visit you.
hell tell me all his purpose.
pray follow.
mistress,dispatch you with your safest haste,and get you from our court.
i th name of truth,are ye fantastical,or that indeed which outwardly ye show?
if thou spyst any,run and bring me word;and thou shalt find me at the governors.
look how the floor of heaven is thick inlaid with patens of bright gold.
this day,in argument upon a case,some words there grew twixt somerset and me;among which terms he used his lavish tongue and did upbraid me with my fathers death;which obloquy set bars before my tongue,else with the like i had requited him.
dost thou think ill fear thee as i fear thy father?
woult tear thyself?
now leaden slumber with lifes strength doth fight,and every one to rest themselves betake,save thieves and cares and troubled minds that wake.
youll let us in,i hope?
against her will!
a shy fellow was the duke;and i believe i know the cause of his withdrawing.
yare,yare,good iras;quick.
most true;the will!
it shall be sparing,and too full of riot,teaching decrepit age to tread the measures;the staring ruffian shall it keep in quiet,pluck down the rich,enrich the poor with treasures;it shall be raging mad,and silly mild,make the young old,the old become a child.
so shalt thou sinew both these lands together,and,having france thy friend,thou shalt not dread the scattered foe that hopes to rise again;for though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
yes,faith,and all his lords,the duke of milan,and his brave son being twain.
even those you were wont to take such delight inthe tragedians of the city.
not any yet.
these indeed seem,for they are actions that a man might play;but i have that within which passeth show;these but the trappings and the suits of woe.
ill keep my oath,patiently to bear my wroth.
go thou,and like an executioner cut off the heads of too fast-growing sprays that look too lofty in our commonwealth.
if my dear love were but the child of state,it might for fortunes bastard be unfathered,as subject to times love or to times hate,weeds among weeds,or flowers with flowers gathered.
the slip sir,the slip;can you not conceive?
the gods forbid!
and robin hood,scarlet,and john.
but still the house affairs would draw her thence,which ever as she could with haste dispatch,shed come again,and with a greedy ear devour up my discourse;which i observing,took once a pliant hour,and found good means to draw from her a prayer of earnest heart that i would all my pilgrimage dilate,whereof by parcels she had something heard,but not intentively.
our knocking has awakd him;here he comes.
what is,my lord?
i am now going to resolve him.
they in themselves,good sooth,are too too light.
whiles we are suitors to their throne,decays the thing we sue for.
you cannot,if my heart were in your hand,nor shall not,whilst tis in my custody.
no,that were pity.
my fortunesparentagegood parentage to equal mine!
ay,greek;and that shall be divulged well in characters as red as mars his heart inflamd with venus.
he will not suffer us to burn their bones,to urn their ashes,nor to take th offence of mortal loathsomeness from the blest eye of holy phbus,but infects the winds with stench of our slain lords.
before harfleur.
bid them have patience;she shall come anon.
then you,belike,suspect these noblemen as guilty of duke humphreys timeless death.
here folds she up the tenor of her woe,her certain sorrow writ uncertainly.
they have had my house a week at command;i have turned away my other guests.
but give me your hand,menas.
good even,good father.
romans,let us go.
an honourable conduct let him have.
let me have war,say i.
now,sir,this staff is my sister,for,look you,she is as white as a lily and as small as a wand.
will you not,my lord?
be cunning in the working this,and thy fee is a thousand ducats.
i have;but what of him?
the smiles of knaves tent in my cheeks,and schoolboys tears take up the glasses of my sight!
what,wouldst thou kneel with me?
where is the horse that doth untread again his tedious measures with the unbated fire that he did pace them first?
or hast thou a mark to thyself,like a honest,plain-dealing man?
thou hast painfully discovered.
for this night,to bed,and dream on the event.
she now begs that little thought,when she set footing here,she should have bought her dignities so dear.
whereon,i do beseech thee,grant me this,to leave me but a little to myself.
but ill neer put my finger in the fire,and need not.
o,were the sum of these that i should pay countless and infinite,yet would i pay them.
good cromwell,neglect him not;make use now,and provide for thine own future safety.
for mine own part,i never tasted timon in my life,nor came any of his bounties over me to mark me for his friend.
the good gods assuage thy wrath and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here,this,who,like a block,hath denied my access to thee.
god mend all.
you know he brought me out o favour with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
good signiors both,when shall we laugh?
but this i can let you understand:the greater file of the subject held the duke to be wise.
and longaville was for my service born.
i will set down what comes from her,to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
but well.
so,sirs.
did you ever cure any so?
then taking him from thence that is not there,you break no privilege nor charter there.
one;two.
hold,therefore,angelo.
give me thy torch,boy.
o heavens!
celestial as thou art,o do not love that wrong,to sing heavens praise with such an earthly tongue.
pucelle hath bravely playd her part in this,and doth deserve a coronet of gold.
o wretched state!
nay,thats most fixed.
o,bear me witness,night.
do you think tis this?
accursed be that tongue that tells me so,for it hath cowd my better part of man!
so will i pray that thou mayst have thy will,if thou turn back and my loud crying still.
i am extinct.
i well allow the occasion of our arms,but gladly would be better satisfied how in our means we should advance ourselves to look with forehead bold and big enough upon the power and puissance of the king.
gentlemen,will you go muster men?
list to your tribunes.
as caesar loved me,i weep for him;as he was fortunate,i rejoice at it;as he was valiant,i honour him;but,as he was ambitious,i slew him.
o,thou thinkest to serve me last that i may longest keep thy sorrow in my breast.
by my hand,i had thought to have strucken him with a cudgel,and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a false report of him.
was not thy father,richard earl of cambridge,for treason executed in our late kings days?
yare shallow,madam,in great friends;for the knaves come to do that for me which i am a-weary of.
thou art like the harpy,which,to betray,dost,with thine angels face,seize with thine eagles talons.
the money is paid back again.
every man heres so.
come,say your prayers.
come,my good lord,away.
dost thou know dover?
i perceive you delight not in music.
too curst is more than curst:i shall lessen gods sending that way;for it is said,god sends a curst cow short horns;but to a cow too curst he sends none.
you will the sooner that i were away,for youll prove perjured if you make me stay.
grandpr,french lord.
no,nor of any shores:yet i was mortally brought forth,and am no other than i appear.
it strikes me past the hope of comfort.
not possible;for who shall bear your part and be in padua here vincentios son;keep house and ply his book,welcome his friends;visit his countrymen,and banquet them?
you may so in the end.
why should this change of thoughts,the sad companion,dull-eyed melancholy,be my so used a guest as not an hour in the days glorious walk or peaceful night,the tomb where grief should sleep,can breed me quiet?
we are no tyrant,but a christian king,unto whose grace our passion is as subject as is our wretches fettred in our prisons;therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness tell us the dauphins mind.
how,how?
only refer yourself to this advantage:first,that your stay with him may not be long;that the time may have all shadow and silence in it;and the place answer to convenience.
you have good leave to leave us.
then let not him be slanderd with revolt.
base trojan,thou shalt die.
out of my sight,and never see me more!
demand of him my condition,and what credit i have with the duke.
o viper vile!
her mood will needs be pitied.
mark,king of scotland,mark:no sooner justice had,with valour armd,compelld these skipping kerns to trust their heels,but the norweyan lord,surveying vantage,with furbishd arms and new supplies of men,began a fresh assault.
how many times shall caesar bleed in sport,that now on pompeys basis lies along,no worthier than the dust!
so to most noble caesar.
show me one scar charactered on thy skin;mens flesh preserved so whole do seldom win.
it is as easy for me,kate,to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much more french.
with more than common thanks i will receive it.
her father is baptista minola,an affable and courteous gentleman;her name is katherina minola,renownd in padua for her scolding tongue.
lend me a fools heart and a womans eyes and ill beweep these comforts,worthy senators.
we shall see wilful adultery and murder committed.
shall will in others seem right gracious,and in my will no fair acceptance shine?
if any,speak;for him have i offended.
and badst me bury love.
the more pity that fools may not speak wisely what wise men do foolishly.
he hath sent me an earnest inviting,which many my near occasions did urge me to put off;but he hath conjured me beyond them,and i must needs appear.
peace shall go sleep with turks and infidels,and in this seat of peace tumultuous wars shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound.
he could never come better:he shall come in.
how can she thus,then,call us by our names?
is this the talbot,so much feard abroad that with his name the mothers still their babes?
it waves me forth again.
he did look far into the service of the time,and was discipled of the bravest.
thither go these news as fast as horse can carry them.
gower is a good captain,and is good knowledge and literatured in the wars.
you shall find there a man who is the abstract of all faults that all men follow.
yea,marry,william cook,bid him come hither.
o jesu,are you come from wales?
i must away today before night come.
thus defied,i thank thee for myself.
troth,sir,i can yield you none without words,and words are grown so false,i am loath to prove reason with them.
in faith,my hand meant nothing to my sword.
i to my grave,where peace and rest lie with me.
that i can tell you too.
o,it is much that a lie with a slight oath and a jest with a sad brow will do with a fellow that never had the ache in his shoulders!
he has pray his pible well dat he is no come.
here is better than the open air;take it thankfully.
no more,i pray you.
yea,my lord;but i can cross it.
heres his dry hand up and down:you are he,you are he.
if my offence be of such mortal kind that nor my service past,nor present sorrows,nor purposd merit in futurity,can ransom me into his love again,but to know so must be my benefit;so shall i clothe me in a forcd content,and shut myself up in some other course to fortunes alms.
you mock me,sir.
my matter hath no voice,lady,but to your own most pregnant and vouchsafed ear.
what is he more than another?
since when,i pray you,sir?
she must lie here on mere necessity.
let the door be lockd:treachery!
it is now two oclock;but,let me see,by ten we shall have each a hundred englishmen.
i pray you,see him presently dischargd,for he is bound to sea,and stays but for it.
in these times you stand on distanceyour passes,stoccadoes,and i know not what.
besides,this duncan hath borne his faculties so meek,hath been so clear in his great office,that his virtues will plead like angels,trumpet-tongued,against the deep damnation of his taking-off;and pity,like a naked new-born babe,striding the blast,or heavens cherubin,horsd upon the sightless couriers of the air,shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,that tears shall drown the wind.
your worship,sir,or else i mistook.
shut the door,i pray you.
let not sloth dim your honours new-begot.
fit i meet them.
where rode he the whilst?
ant please your majesty,tis the gage of one that i should fight withal,if he be alive.
determine on some course more than a wild exposture to each chance that starts i th way before thee.
at which,as it were by inspiration,she makes in her sleep signs of rejoicing and holdeth up her hands to heaven.
then clarence is at hand;i hear his drum.
then,lord have mercy on me!
i am afeard,being in night,all this is but a dream,too flattering sweet to be substantial.
be now as prodigal of all dear grace as nature was in making graces dear when she did starve the general world beside and prodigally gave them all to you.
did set forth upon his irish expedition;from whence he,intercepted,did return to be deposed,and shortly murdered.
what,here?
he was?
i can tell your fortune.
i humbly thank you.
good day,good day.
far truer spoke than meant.
name not religion,for thou lovst the flesh,and neer throughout the year to church thou gost,except it be to pray against thy foes.
where is thy power,then,to beat him back?
look for thy reward among the nettles at the elder-tree which overshades the mouth of that same pit where we decreed to bury bassianus.
what sins have i committed,chaste diana,that my unspotted youth must now be soiled with blood of princes,and my chastity be made the altar where the lives of lovers two greater and two better never yet made mothers joymust be the sacrifice to my unhappy beauty?
uncover,dogs,and lap.
clarence still breathes;edward still lives and reigns.
come,you and i must walk a turn together.
if thou art she,tell me where is that son that floated with thee on the fatal raft?
o,keep me from their worse than killing lust,and tumble me into some loathsome pit,where never mans eye may behold my body.
fordi will be patient.
dost thou think alexander looked o this fashion i thearth?
for wisdoms sake,a word that all men love,or for loves sake,a word that loves all men,or for mens sake,the authors of these women,or womens sake,by whom we men are men,let us once lose our oaths to find ourselves,or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths.
well,what worst?
an alarum.
look,what i will not,that i cannot do.
be advisd,fair maid.
why such is loves transgression.
the love of wicked men converts to fear,that fear to hate,and hate turns one or both to worthy danger and deserved death.
the drum your honour hears marcheth from warwick.
back,i say,go,lest i let forth your half pint of blood.
see,see,thou hast shot off one of taurus horns.
whos this comes here?
but for this lord who hath abusd me as he knows himself,though yet he never harmd me,here i quit him.
do so,and tis well.
so should he look that seems to speak things strange.
the lofty cedar,royal cymbeline,personates thee;and thy loppd branches point thy two sons forth,who,by belarius stoln,for many years thought dead,are now revivd,to the majestic cedar joind,whose issue promises britain peace and plenty.
your mind is tossing on the ocean,there where your argosies,with portly sail like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,or as it were the pageants of the sea,do overpeer the petty traffickers that curtsy to them,do them reverence,as they fly by them with their woven wings.
their gentle sex to weep are often willing,grieving themselves to guess at others smarts,and then they drown their eyes or break their hearts.
i know his trumpet.
nay,if you have not,to it again,we will stay your leisure.
provide us all things necessary and meet me tomorrow night in eastcheap;there ill sup.
is jack cade slain?
villain,i have done thy mother.
i am courtiercap-a-pe,and one that will either push on or pluck back thy business there.
here is my hand;the premises observd,thy will by my performance shall be servd;so make the choice of thy own time,for i,thy resolvd patient,on thee still rely.
if she live long,and in the end meet the old course of death,women will all turn monsters.
lady,amen.
this will catch her attention,for this her mind beats upon;other objects that are inserted tween her mind and eye become the pranks and friskins of her madness.
what,multitudes,and fear?
but in this point all his tricks founder,and he brings his physic after his patients death.
what canst thou say when noble pericles shall demand his child?
in vain?
they have pitched a toil;i am toiling in a pitch,pitch that defiles.
but gainst your privacy the reasons are more potent and heroical.
lo,whilst i waited on my tender lambs,and to suns parching heat displayd my cheeks,gods mother deigned to appear to me,and in a vision full of majesty willd me to leave my base vocation and free my country from calamity.
you have stood your limitation,and the tribunes endue you with the peoples voice.
hang him instantly.
knock,sir?
o,happy vantage of a kneeling knee!
ist but a rare one?
still,tis strange he thus should steal upon us.
amongst the soldiers this is muttered:that here you maintain several factions and whilst a field should be dispatchd and fought,you are disputing of your generals.
o,these eclipses do portend these divisions!
and i for ganymede.
your means are very slender,and your waste is great.
chain me with roaring bears;or hide me nightly in a charnel-house,oer-coverd quite with dead mens rattling bones,with reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls.
no:the wren goes tot,and the small gilded fly does lecher in my sight.
come down and welcome me to this worlds light;confer with me of murder and of death.
so say i.
sir,shes well restored,and to be married shortly.
thus ready for the way of life or death,i wait the sharpest blow,antiochus.
for ever and for ever farewell,brutus.
surely,sir,theres in him stuff that puts him to these ends;for,being not propped by ancestry,whose grace chalks successors their way,nor called upon for high feats done to th crown;neither allied to eminent assistants,but spider-like,out of his self-drawing web,he gives us note the force of his own merit makes his way a gift that heaven gives for him,which buys a place next to the king.
but the full sum of me is sum of something,which,to term in gross,is an unlessond girl,unschoold,unpractisd;happy in this,she is not yet so old but she may learn;happier than this,she is not bred so dull but she can learn;happiest of all,is that her gentle spirit commits itself to yours to be directed,as from her lord,her governor,her king.
o,for your reason!
urge neither charity nor shame to me.
who dead?
if i go to him,with my armed fist ill pash him oer the face.
the rest let sorrow say.
i find here that don pedro hath bestowed much honour on a young florentine called claudio.
no,by the rood,not so.
so between them love did shine,that the turtle saw his right flaming in the phoenix sight;either was the others mine.
o,upon my knee,made hard with kneeling,i do pray to thee,thou virtuous dauphin,alter not the doom forethought by heaven!
who,i?
then thou whose shadow shadows doth make bright how would thy shadows form,form happy show,to the clear day with thy much clearer light,when to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!
they are not near my conscience;their defeat does by their own insinuation grow.
for i were loath to link with him that were not lawful chosen.
she sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies,more like an empress than duke humphreys wife.
lady,wherefore talk you so?
nay,ill read it first by your favour.
are we all ready?
nay,but speak not maliciously.
nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship.
to end the quarrel?
yet,good madam,sometimes her modesty will blow so far she falls for t.
here is the place,my lord;good my lord,enter:the tyranny of the open nights too rough for nature to endure.
you hear how he importunes me.
thy spirits are most tall.
what the devil should move me to undertake the recovery of this drum,being not ignorant of the impossibility,and knowing i had no such purpose?
even so.
ourselves,our wives,and children,on our knees are bound to pray for you both.
follow not,ill have no speaking,i will have my bond.
it is here,hamlet.
and again does nothing but what he did being childish?
you go so much backward when you fight.
o worthiness of nature!
but you have done more miracles than i.
porters man.
no,that you shall not,till you take her hand before this friar,and swear to marry her.
thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west,witnessing storms to come,woe,and unrest.
not th imperious show of the full-fortuned caesar ever shall be brooched with me;if knife,drugs,serpents,have edge,sting,or operation,i am safe.
so am i as the rich whose blessed key,can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,the which he will not every hour survey,for blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
you are my all the world,and i must strive,to know my shames and praises from your tongue,none else to me,nor i to none alive,that my steeled sense or changes right or wrong.
come,cousin westmoreland,our duty this way lies.
well then,heres the point:you must forget to be a woman;change command into obedience;fear and niceness(the handmaids of all women,or,more truly,woman it pretty self)into a waggish courage;ready in gibes,quick-answerd,saucy,and as quarrelous as the weasel.
to both these sisters have i sworn my love;each jealous of the other,as the stung are of the adder.
keep in tunis,and let sebastian wake.
therefore ill make him sure,yea,and ill swear i killed him.
but ah!
perchance that envy of so rich a thing,braving compare,disdainfully did sting his high-pitched thoughts,that meaner men should vaunt that golden hap which their superiors want.
angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her;only he hath made an assay of her virtue,to practise his judgement with the disposition of natures.
am i a woodman,ha?
ill cross it,though it blast me.
i am in haste.
he is my prisoner,and you shall not have him.
i may not show it.
alas,this parting strikes poor lovers dumb.
thou whoreson,senseless villain.
peace,chewet,peace!
but never once again turn back and fly.
he would have clapped i th clout at twelve score,and carried you a forehand shaft a fourteen and fourteen and a half,that it would have done a mans heart good to see.
mine own,helicanus;she is not dead at tarsus,as she should have been,by savage cleon:she shall tell thee all;when thou shalt kneel,and justify in knowledge she is thy very princess.
hark,how they joy!
ah,aunt,you wept not for our fathers death.
rest you happy!
o cousin,that we should things desire,which do cost us the loss of our desire!
now will i question cassio of bianca,a housewife that by selling her desires buys herself bread and clothes:it is a creature that dotes on cassio,(as tis the strumpets plague to beguile many and be beguild by one.
upon these eyes of thine ill set my foot.
o wall,full often hast thou heard my moans,for parting my fair pyramus and me.
love me or love me not,i like the cap;and it i will have,or i will have none.
agamemnon he hears naught privately that comes from troy.
no,great king;i come to thee for charitable license,that we may wander oer this bloody field to book our dead,and then to bury them;to sort our nobles from our common men.
why,anything.
hail to thee,worthy timon,and to all that of his bounties taste!
perseverance,dear my lord,keeps honour bright.
what is the night?
hence,villain!
what would you with her?
i will be flesh and blood;for there was never yet philosopher that could endure the toothache patiently,however they have writ the style of gods and made a push at chance and sufferance.
see,see;here comes the man we went to seek.
but soft,but see,or rather do not see my fair rose wither;yet look up,behold,that you in pity may dissolve to dew and wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
give me thy hand,my cousin;i will go eat with thee,and see your knights.
to choose love by anothers eyes!
came you from shrewsbury?
a pair of tribunes that have wracked rome to make coals cheap!
why,theres the privilege your beauty bears.
do you think so?
hum!
pericles like a bold champion,i assume the lists,nor ask advice of any other thought but faithfulness and courage.
proceed,proceed!
but who comes here?
brave world!
right,as snow in harvest.
may i complain myself?
what,ho,mistress page!
lord,how your favours changed with this unprofitable woe!
hold,sir,for gods sake,now your jest is earnest.
i will be with thee straight.
speak to us.
thurio,give back,or else embrace thy death;come not within the measure of my wrath.
it did come to his hands,and commands shall be executed.
i did not.
good master shallow,let him woo for himself.
i wonder at it.
with this field-dew consecrate,every fairy take his gait,and each several chamber bless,through this palace,with sweet peace;and the owner of it blest.
go with me to dinner.
o,thy vile lady!
there will i visit cleon,for the babe cannot hold out to tyrus.
at last she calls to mind where hangs a piece of skilful painting,made for priams troy,before the which is drawn the power of greece,for helens rape the city to destroy,threatning cloud-kissing ilion with annoy;which the conceited painter drew so proud,as heaven,it seemed,to kiss the turrets bowed.
is this the king we sent to for his ransom?
let us see:leave,gentle wax;and,manners,blame us not.
ist not a kind of incest to take life from thine own sisters shame?
for his sake did i expose myself,pure for his love,into the danger of this adverse town;drew to defend him when he was beset;where being apprehended,his false cunning(not meaning to partake with me in danger)taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,and grew a twenty years removed thing while one would wink;denied me mine own purse,which i had recommended to his use not half an hour before.
he was wont to come home wounded.
i have sold all my trumpery.
fairies and gods prosper it with thee!
but to have a love of that colour,methinks samson had small reason for it.
none,brutus,none.
he speaks home,madam.
i will discase me,and myself present as i was sometime milan.
serve the king.
shell take the enterprise upon her,father,if you advise it.
because till now we never saw your face.
but when he saw his love,his youths fair fee,he held such petty bondage in disdain;throwing the base thong from his bending crest,enfranchising his mouth,his back,his breast.
lord cardinal,i will follow eleanor,and listen after humphrey,how he proceeds.
o heaven,be judge how i love valentine,whose lifes as tender to me as my soul!
we will,my noble lord.
doth the king call?
but no perfection is so absolute that some impurity doth not pollute.
sirrah ill hear no more.
i would thou wert a mans tailor,that thou mightst mend him and make him fit to go.
if it be a hot day,and i brandish anything but a bottle,i would i might never spit white again.
sheriff,farewell,and better than i fare,although thou hast been conduct of my shame.
as will stop the eye of helens needle,for whom he comes to fight.
would he not fall down,since pride must have a fall,and break the neck of that proud man that did usurp his back?
sblood,ill not bear my own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin in thy fathers exchequer.
we are amazed,and thus long have we stood to watch the fearful bending of thy knee because we thought ourself thy lawful king.
tis seldom when the bee doth leave her comb in the dead carrion.
que je suis semblableles anges?
poor gentlewoman,my master wrongs her much.
who was it that thus cried?
for pitys sake and true gentilitys,hear and respect me.
now of this dark night i perceive the reason:cynthia for shame obscures her silver shinetill forging nature be condemnd of treason,for stealing moulds from heaven,that were divine;wherein she framd thee,in high heavens despite,to shame the sun by day and her by night.
prithee call my master to him.
awake,awake!
now where is he that will not stay so long till his friend sickness hath determind me?
if you will not,tarry at home and be hanged.
why,sir,shes a good creature.
but if i live,his feigned ecstasies shall be no shelter to these outrages;but he and his shall know that justice lives in saturninus health;whom,if she sleep,hell so awake as he in fury shall cut off the proudst conspirator that lives.
so,bassianus,you have played your prize.
how like a jade he stood tied to the tree,servilely masterd with a leathern rein!
for why?
every night he comes with musics of all sorts,and songs composd to her unworthiness:it nothing steads us to chide him from our eaves;for he persists as if his life lay on t.
no more anger,as you love anything thats honourable!
o cursed spite,that ever i was born to set it right.
look to th door there,francis.
yea,and a case to put it into.
the king is movd,and answers not to this.
wast not to this end that thou beganst to twist so fine a story?
scorning advice,read the conclusion,then:which read and not expounded,tis decreed,as these before thee thou thyself shalt bleed.
didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand?
mine honest friends,i turn you not away,but,like a master married to your good service,stay till death.
and now to paris in this conquering vein.
from whence?
a fox when one has caught her,and such a daughter,should sure to the slaughter,if my cap would buy a halter;so the fool follows after.
i do relent.
arise,great sir,and give the tidings ear that are most dearly sweet and bitter.
serve always with assured trust,and in thy suit be humble true;unless thy lady prove unjust,press never thou to choose a new:when time shall serve,be thou not slack,to proffer,though she put thee back.
hie to high fortune!
tis a vile thing to die,my gracious lord,when men are unprepared and look not for it.
here,good my glass,take this for telling true:fair payment for foul words is more than due.
theres not a man i meet but doth salute me as if i were their well-acquainted friend,and everyone doth call me by my name.
this is strange to me.
fellows in arms,and my most loving friends,bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny,thus far into the bowels of the land have we marched on without impediment;and here receive we from our father stanley lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
duke of exeter,uncle to the king.
o,cursed be the hand that made these holes;cursed the heart that had the heart to do it;cursed the blood that let this blood from hence.
are we all met?
he is already namd;and gone to scone to be invested.
sweet rose,fair flower,untimely pluckd,soon vaded,pluckd in the bud and vaded in the spring!
and then i precepts gave her,that she should lock herself from his resort,admit no messengers,receive no tokens.
ifaith,ifaith,and both in a tune like two gipsies on a horse.
his countenance likes me not.
they that reap must sheaf and bind,then to cart with rosalind.
unsheathe your sword,good father;cry saint george!
if you miscarry,your business of the world hath so an end,and machination ceases.
keep this man safe,give him all kindness.
he said he would not ransom mortimer,forbade my tongue to speak of mortimer,but i will find him when he lies asleep,and in his ear ill holla mortimer!
faith,that was not so well;yet would i knew that stroke would prove the worst!
i do affect the very ground,which is base,where her shoe,which is baser,guided by her foot,which is basest,doth tread.
i have no power to speak,sir.
how knowst thou this?
tis good we do so.
we should by this,to all our lamentation,if he had gone forth consul,found it so.
i do repent me.
angelo hath seen them both,and will discover the favour.
why,sir,i know her not.
he at philippi kept his sword een like a dancer,while i struck the lean and wrinkled cassius,and twas i that the mad brutus ended.
my lord?
the country cocks do crow,the clocks do toll,and the third hour of drowsy morning name.
what tidings send our scouts?
and did they bid you tell her of it,madam?
tis nobly spoken.
well,while i live,ill fear no other thing so sore as keeping safe nerissas ring.
let me pass the same i am,ere ancientst order was or what is now received.
never durst poet touch a pen to write until his ink were tempered with loves sighs.
ill bring it tomorrow.
the curtains being close,about he walks,rolling his greedy eyeballs in his head.
lo,yonder,and titinius mourning it.
oer us the victors have fortune,whose title is as momentary,as to us death is certain.
for thou hast given me in this beauteous face a world of earthly blessings to my soul,if sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
pray thee,marry us.
if,in the course and process of this time,you can report,and prove it too,against mine honour aught,my bond to wedlock,or my love and duty against your sacred person,in gods name,turn me away and let the foulst contempt shut door upon me,and so give me up to the sharpst kind of justice.
what think you of the scottish lord,his neighbour?
i confess,i confess treason.
what,ho!
maybe the amorous count solicits her in the unlawful purpose.
my lord the king,the king!
leave nothing out for length,and make us think rather our states defective for requital,than we to stretch it out.
i shall desire you of more acquaintance,good master cobweb.
my lord,i shall reply amazedly,half sleep,half waking;but as yet,i swear,i cannot truly say how i came here.
in poison there is physic;and these news,having been well,that would have made me sick,being sick,have in some measure made me well.
you hear all these matters denied,gentlemen;you hear it.
down from the waist they are centaurs,though women all above.
ay,madam.
no blame be to you,sir,for all was lost,but that the heavens fought.
a royal train,believe me.
be mad,good master;cry,the devil.
go put it to the haste.
kill and knock down!
but wherefore,villain,didst thou kill my cousin?
quoth she heres but two and fifty hairs on your chin,and one of them is white.
read it,mark antony.
is this the face which faced so many follies,that was at last outfaced by bolingbroke?
thou answerst she is fair;pourst in the open ulcer of my heart her eyes,her hair,her cheek,her gait,her voice,handlest in thy discourse.
what,i pray you?
see,see!
o,whither?
fast asleep behind the arras,and snorting like a horse.
o wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
but,lords,in all our bloody massacre,i muse we met not with the dauphins grace,his new-come champion,virtuous joan of arc,nor any of his false confederates.
farewell,old gaunt.
o,that i were as great as is my grief,or lesser than my name,or that i could forget what i have been,or not remember what i must be now.
which of youif you were a princes son,being pent from liberty,as i am now if two such murderers as yourselves came to you,would not entreat for life?
re-enter claudio,beatrice,hero and leonato.
name what part i am for,and proceed.
take herefords rights away,and take from time his charters and his customary rights;let not tomorrow then ensue today;be not thyself;for how art thou a king but by fair sequence and succession?
give me leave,caesar.
marry,sir,lullaby to your bounty till i come again.
long live so,and so die!
a hue and cry hath followed certain men unto this house.
my gentle phoebe did bid me give you this.
nephew,what means this passionate discourse,this peroration with such circumstance?
the duke had crotchets in him.
then where is truth,if there be no self-trust?
discomfortable cousin,knowst thou not that when the searching eye of heaven is hid behind the globe that lights the lower world,then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen in murders and in outrage boldly here;but when from under this terrestrial ball he fires the proud tops of the eastern pines and darts his light through every guilty hole,then murders,treasons,and detested sins,the cloak of night being plucked from off their backs,stand bare and naked,trembling at themselves?
where should this music be?
nay,in the body of the fleshly land,this kingdom,this confine of blood and breath,hostility and civil tumult reigns between my conscience and my cousins death.
put thyself into a haviour of less fear,ere wildness vanquish my staider senses.
mine eye hath well examined his parts and finds them perfect richard.
now twill take form;the heats are gone tomorrow.
o,could this kiss be printed in thy hand,that thou mightst think upon these by the seal,through whom a thousand sighs are breathed for thee!
have i not tarried?
come,gentlemen,lets go.
art thou here yet?
say to the king the knowledge of the broil as thou didst leave it.
suffolk concluded on the articles,the peers agreed,and henry was well pleased to change two dukedoms for a dukes fair daughter.
one must prove greatest:while they weigh so even,we hold our town for neither,yet for both.
then does he say he lent me some shipping,unrestored.
a little of all noble qualities.
ill never care what wickedness i do,if this man come to good.
pardon,sir;error.
i am denied to sue my livery here,and yet my letters patents give me leave.
for this,ill never follow thy palled fortunes more.
but shall it be that you that set the crown upon the head of this forgetful man,and for his sake wear the detested blot of murderous subornationshall it be,that you a world of curses undergo,being the agents,or base second means,the cords,the ladder,or the hangman rather?
you know your own degrees,sit down.
take him up gently,and to bed with him,and each one to his office when he wakes.
take what wife you will to bed,i will ever be your head:so be gone;you are sped.
sirs,take you to your tools.
i will hear you soon.
but send me flavius first.
i hope the king is not yet shipped for ireland.
these letters at fit time deliver me.
i confess two sleeves.
i saw our party to their trenches driven,and then i came away.
i hope they are good.
and,for an entrance to my entertainment,i do present you with a man of mine,cunning in music and the mathematics,to instruct her fully in those sciences,whereof i know she is not ignorant.
i do not know from what part of the world i should be greeted,if not from lord hamlet.
o,these deliberate fools!
there will we sit upon the rocks,and see the shepherds feed their flocks,by shallow rivers,by whose falls melodious birds sing madrigals.
when we grow stronger,then well make our claim.
it is my arm.
come,you are pleasant.
i shall live to knock thy brains out with my shackles.
from isles of greece the princes orgulous,their high blood chafd,have to the port of athens sent their ships fraught with the ministers and instruments of cruel war.
prepare my horses.
stand you awhile aloof.
but the rarity of it is,which is indeed almost beyond credit,as many vouchd rarities are.
what,weeping-ripe,my lord northumberland?
the shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort who pyramus presented in their sport,forsook his scene and enterd in a brake.
have you any further trade with us?
where is the gentleman that was with her?
me believe it?
what is thy news?
sir,i did never win of you before.
o,that my tongue were in the thunders mouth!
go to,then.
fie on this storm!
i cannot tell vat is dat,but it is tell-a me dat you make grand preparation for a duke de jamany.
if,duke of burgundy,you would the peace,whose want gives growth to the imperfections which you have cited,you must buy that peace with full accord to all our just demands;whose tenours and particular effects you have enscheduld briefly in your hands.
so please you step aside;ill know his grievance or be much denied.
here,cousin,seize the crown.
now for ourself and for this time of meeting:thus much the business is:we have here writ to norway,uncle of young fortinbras,who,impotent and bed-rid,scarcely hears of this his nephews purpose,to suppress his further gait herein;in that the levies,the lists,and full proportions are all made out of his subject:and we here dispatch you,good cornelius,and you,voltemand,for bearers of this greeting to old norway,giving to you no further personal power to business with the king,more than the scope of these dilated articles allow.
dost thou hear,camillo,i conjure thee,by all the parts of man which honour does acknowledge,whereof the least is not this suit of mine,that thou declare what incidency thou dost guess of harm is creeping toward me;how far off,how near;which way to be prevented,if to be;if not,how best to bear it.
bianca,stand aside.
for what i have i need not to repeat,and what i want it boots not to complain.
here,at thy hand.
our son of cornwall,and you,our no less loving son of albany,we have this hour a constant will to publish our daughters several dowers,that future strife may be prevented now.
maybe he tells you true.
thy mothers poisond.
no sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,or gild again the noble troops that waited upon my smiles.
anon,sir.
no,my good lord,diana.
let the sky rain potatoes,let it thunder to the tune of greensleeves,hail kissing-comfits and snow eringoes;let there come a tempest of provocation,i will shelter me here.
i would not be sir nob in any case.
into what dangers would you lead me,cassius,that you would have me seek into myself for that which is not in me?
theres villainy abroad.
i will put on his presence.
as doth a ruler with unlawful oaths;or one that,at a triumph having vowd to try his strength,forsaketh yet the lists by reason of his adversarys odds.
can he vent trinculos?
seignieur,hang!
if to either,thou dost ill.
her speech is nothing,yet the unshaped use of it doth move the hearers to collection;they aim at it,and botch the words up fit to their own thoughts,which,as her winks,and nods,and gestures yield them,indeed would make one think there might be thought,though nothing sure,yet much unhappily.
i dare be bound again,my soul upon the forfeit,that your lord will never more break faith advisedly.
this evening coming.
hark how the villain would close now,after his treasonable abuses!
wi leave,theyre called arcite and palamon.
sweet draught!
the grave doth gape,and doting death is near,therefore exhale.
god bless your grace with health and happy days!
and at this sport sir valour dies;cries o,enough,patroclus;or give me ribs of steel!
and now,good friends,as you are friends,scholars,and soldiers,give me one poor request.
troubled i am.
the question then,lord hastings,standeth thus:whether our present five and twenty thousand may hold up head without northumberland.
tis our hope,sir,after well-entred soldiers,to return and find your grace in health.
farewell,thou canst not teach me to forget.
maybe she doth but counterfeit.
i have made you mad;and even with such-like valour men hang and drown their proper selves.
will you hence,before the tag return,whose rage doth rend like interrupted waters,and oerbear what they are used to bear?
lest it make you choleric,and purchase me another dry basting.
but come your ways.
i do know him a gentleman that well deserves a help,which he shall have.
you go not till i set you up a glass where you may see the inmost part of you.
his youth in flood,ill prove this troth with my three drops of blood.
i humbly do entreat your highness pardon.
tis virtue.
in a bad quarrel slain a virtuous son.
hector shall not have his wit this year.
that misbegotten devil,faulconbridge,in spite of spite,alone upholds the day.
see how the morning opes her golden gates and takes her farewell of the glorious sun.
methinks the power that edward hath in field should not be able to encounter mine.
goes it against the main of poland,sir,or for some frontier?
nay,i assure you,a peace concluded.
the people mutinous;and,it is rumoured,cominius,martius your old enemy,who is of rome worse hated than of you,and titus lartius,a most valiant roman,these three lead on this preparation whither tis bent.
would they else be content to die?
o god,i fear thy justice will take hold on me,and you,and mine and yours for this!
well,we will leave you then till dinner-time.
no,my good lord;tis but the shadow of a wife you see,the name,and not the thing.
by my troth,niece,thou wilt never get thee a husband,if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
you could never do him so ill-well,unless you were the very man.
tis your counsel my lord should to the heavens be contrary,oppose against their wills.
i had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partisan i could not heave.
the ears are senseless that should give us hearing,to tell him his commandment is fulfilld,that rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead.
challenge her to bowl.
better i were distract:so should my thoughts be severd from my griefs,and woes by wrong imaginations lose the knowledge of themselves.
were you in doubt,sir,that you asked her?
no doubt,my lord.
bear her my true loves kiss;and so,farewell.
you,my lord,your son in scotland being thus employd,shall secretly into the bosom creep of that same noble prelate well beloved,the archbishop.
my husbands hand?
go tell this heavy message to the king.
come off,come off;as slippery as the gordian knot was hard!
there,coriolanus.
and not a jot of tranio in your mouth:tranio is changed to lucentio.
why,what have you to do whither they bear it?
sons,well higher to the mountains;there secure us.
troth,sir,she hath eaten up all her beef,and she is herself in the tub.
it is not madness that i have utterd.
hark,the trumpets sound!
the gods out of my misery have sent thee treasure.
a proper gentlewoman,sir,and a kinswoman of my masters.
to you i give myself,for i am yours.
i will not be put out of countenance.
yet my heart throbs to know one thing:tell me,if your art can tell so much,shall banquos issue ever reign in this kingdom?
come,tell us your reason.
the first and second cause will not serve my turn;thepassadohe respects not,theduellohe regards not.
well,that fault may be mended with a breakfast.
thy commander,achilles.
go,faulconbridge;now hast thou thy desire.
now,if you could wear a mind dark as your fortune is,and but disguise that which t appear itself must not yet be but by self-danger,you should tread a course pretty and full of view;yea,happily,near the residence of posthumus;so nigh,at least,that though his actions were not visible,yet report should render him hourly to your ear as truly as he moves.
in all swift haste.
and,good master corporal captain,for my old dames sake,stand my friend.
but she i mean is promised by her friends unto a youthful gentleman of worth,and kept severely from resort of men,that no man hath access by day to her.
my recompense is thanks,thats all;yet my good will is great,though the gift small.
right noble is thy merit,well i wot.
drink,and fear not your man.
long have i been forlorn,and all for thee.
but that my hearts on future mischief set,i would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly;but fly you must;uncurable discomfit reigns in the hearts of all our present parts.
faith,i must leave thee,love,and shortly too:my operant powers their functions leave to do:and thou shalt live in this fair world behind,honourd,belovd,and haply one as kind for husband shalt thou o confound the rest.
i had rather hear them scold than fight.
by heaven,ill make a ghost of him that lets me.
leave me,i say.
it cannot be.
and what will you do now?
shes my good lady and will conceive,i hope,but the worst of me.
both with an r.
the douglas and the hotspur both together are confident against the world in arms.
o,the recorders.
how fair the tribune speaks to calm my thoughts!
six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
from the count orsino,is it?
i neer had worse luck in my life in my o lord,sir!
do you know this lady?
and yet i must.
be thou as lightning in the eyes of france,for ere thou canst report,i will be there,the thunder of my cannon shall be heard.
therefore yield,or die.
alas,for whose sake did i that ill deed?
our aery buildeth in the cedars top,and dallies with the wind,and scorns the sun.
draw up the company.
for pistol,he hath a killing tongue and a quiet sword;by the means whereof a breaks words,and keeps whole weapons.
let me see him.
i have heard that julius caesar grew fat with feasting there.
why come you not?
how fares my mistress?
i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
by this kind of chase i should hate him,for my father hated his father dearly;yet i hate not orlando.
and presently go with me to my chamber to take a note of what i stand in need of to furnish me upon my longing journey.
she shall not see me;i will ensconce me behind the arras.
how comes it,then?
he that plays the king shall be welcome,his majesty shall have tribute of me;the adventurous knight shall use his foil and target;the lover shall not sigh gratis,the humorous man shall end his part in peace;the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o th sere;and the lady shall say her mind freely,or the blank verse shall halt fort.
i have some wounds upon me,and they smart to hear themselves remembered.
but such is the infection of the time,that,for the health and physic of our right,we cannot deal but with the very hand of stern injustice and confused wrong.
the baser is he,coming from a king,to shame his hope with deeds degenerate.
the world will say,he is not talbots blood,that basely fled when noble talbot stood.
sometimes her levelld eyes their carriage ride,as they did battry to the spheres intend;sometime diverted their poor balls are tied to thorbed earth;sometimes they do extend their view right on;anon their gazes lend to every place at once,and nowhere fixd,the mind and sight distractedly commixd.
if she pertain to life,let her speak too.
and may not young men die as well as old?
if you see vengeance hold your hand,my lord:i have servd you ever since i was a child;but better service have i never done you than now to bid you hold.
in brief,we are the king of englands subjects.
but when the fox hath once got in his nose,hell soon find means to make the body follow.
if you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,call me before th exactest auditors and set me on the proof.
ill follow thee a month,devise with thee where thou shalt rest,that thou mayst hear of us and we of thee;so if the time thrust forth a cause for thy repeal,we shall not send oer the vast world to seek a single man and lose advantage,which doth ever cool i th absence of the needer.
tis a benefit,a mercy i must thank em for;but banished the free enjoying of that face i die for,o,twas a studied punishment,a death beyond imagination,such a vengeance that,were i old and wicked,all my sins could never pluck upon me.
come away.
what if this cursed hand were thicker than itself with brothers blood,is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens to wash it white as snow?
i will follow.
let us,lepidus,not lack your company.
we wait for certain money here,sir.
i think so,charmian:dull of tongue and dwarfish!
ill fetch a turn about the garden,pitying the pangs of barrd affections,though the king hath chargd you should not speak together.
i account of her beauty.
no,uncle,ill none:adams sons are my brethren;and truly,i hold it a sin to match in my kindred.
why should i not?
ill have it so,a little charge will do it.
there must we bring him;and myself have playd the interim,by remembring you tis past.
i tell thee,daughter,i sprang not more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child than now in first seeing he had proved himself a man.
fetch us in fuel;and be quick,thou rt best,to answer other business.
on,lord;well follow you.
ay,no;no,ay;for i must nothing be.
princely shall be thy usage every way.
to her,kate!
fair lords,take leave and stand not to reply.
who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.
nor his qualities.
re-enter hortensio,with his head broke.
let him be caesar.
then let it do at once the thing why thou hast drawn it.
never did captive with a freer heart cast off his chains of bondage and embrace his golden uncontrolled enfranchisement,more than my dancing soul doth celebrate this feast of battle with mine adversary.
but the sherris warms it and makes it course from the inwards to the parts extremes.
say ay,and all shall presently advance.
know thus far forth.
his beard was grizzled,no?
by yond bush?
news,lads!
well follow him thats fled.
leave off delays,and let us raise the siege.
away with her to prison!
john southwell,read you;and let us to our work.
whats the matter with thee now?
hath your grace neer a brother like you?
tell me precisely of what complexion.
paulina undraws a curtain,and discovers hermione standing as a statue.
let me see.
keep some state in thy exit,and vanish.
aside,aside;here is more matter for a hot brain:every lanes end,every shop,church,session,hanging,yields a careful man work.
hie you to horse:adieu,till you return at night.
doth not the gentleman deserve as full as fortunate a bed as ever beatrice shall couch upon?
i am your host:with robbers hands my hospitable favours you should not ruffle thus.
o,he is grown most kind of late.
be thou ashamed that i have took upon me such an immodest raiment,if shame live in a disguise of love.
give ear,sir,to my sister;for those that mingle reason with your passion must be content to think you old,and so but she knows what she does.
therefore in fierce tempest is he coming,in thunder and in earthquake,like a jove,that,if requiring fail,he will compel;and bids you,in the bowels of the lord,deliver up the crown,and to take mercy on the poor souls for whom this hungry war opens his vasty jaws;and on your head turning the widows tears,the orphans cries,the dead mens blood,the pining maidens groans,for husbands,fathers,and betrothed lovers,that shall be swallowed in this controversy.
dorset your son,that with a fearful soul leads discontented steps in foreign soil,this fair alliance quickly shall call home to high promotions and great dignity.
thy husband he is dead,and for his death thy brothers are condemned,and dead by this.
would he would change!
ay,the bolting;but you must tarry the leavening.
yet i live like a poor gentleman born.
now i am perfect.
doubt not,my lord,ill play the orator as if the golden fee for which i plead were for myself.
it is so.
at berwick in the north,an t like your grace.
thus do i hope to shake king henrys head.
she is fair;and so is julia that i love that i did love,for now my love is thawed,which like a waxen image gainst a fire bears no impression of the thing it was.
i am her mother,sir,whose age and honour both suffer under this complaint we bring,and both shall cease,without your remedy.
there is a vice that most i do abhor,and most desire should meet the blow of justice;for which i would not plead,but that i must;for which i must not plead,but that i am at war twixt will and will not.
then i lie not.
why,all his behaviours did make their retire to the court of his eye,peeping thorough desire.
so part we sadly in this troublous world,to meet with joy in sweet jerusalem.
stand,stand,thou greek;thou art a goodly mark.
in her they are the better for their simpleness;she derives her honesty,and achieves her goodness.
i would they had not come between us.
most horrible!
good cheer,antonio!
all happiness unto my lord the king!
yea,mistress,are you so peremptory?
if i get down,and do not break my limbs,ill find a thousand shifts to get away.
but men may construe things after their fashion,clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
if you do find him,pray you give him this;and when your mistress hears thus much from you,i pray desire her call her wisdom to her.
defiance,traitors,hurl we in your teeth.
not now,not now.
a word in your ear.
she embraces him.
sit thee down,clitus.
she,much amazed,breaks ope her locked-up eyes,who,peeping forth this tumult to behold,are by his flaming torch dimmed and controlled.
to milford haven.
your highness,lately sending into france,did claim some certain dukedoms,in the right of your great predecessor,king edward the third.
is the man grown mad?
nay,but it is not so.
now let it work.
my stomach is not constant.
i would to god,so my untruth had not provoked him to it,the king had cut off my head with my brothers.
is she not apt?
what custom wills,in all things should we dot?
it is my fashion when i see a crab.
ye men of cyprus,let her have your knees.
if the midnight bell did,with his iron tongue and brazen mouth,sound on into the drowsy race of night;if this same were a churchyard where we stand,and thou possessed with a thousand wrongs;or if that surly spirit,melancholy,had bakd thy blood and made it heavy,thick,which else runs tickling up and down the veins,making that idiot,laughter,keep mens eyes and strain their cheeks to idle merriment,a passion hateful to my purposes;or if that thou couldst see me without eyes,hear me without thine ears,and make reply without a tongue,using conceit alone,without eyes,ears,and harmful sound of words;then,in despite of brooded watchful day,i would into thy bosom pour my thoughts.
my lord,i hear none.
to the shoulder-piece gently they swell,like women new-conceived,which speaks him prone to labour,never fainting under the weight of arms;stout-hearted still,but when he stirs,a tiger.
i gave him satisfaction.
o,what a world is this,when what is comely envenoms him that bears it!
shes wedded;her husband banishd;she imprisond.
trumpets sound.
if thou beest trinculo,come forth.
wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
wed find no fault with the tithe-woman,if i were the parson.
i was not angry since i came to france until this instant.
hysterica passio,down,thou climbing sorrow,thy elements below!
prince troilus,i have lovd you night and day for many weary months.
things that love night love not such nights as these;the wrathful skies gallow the very wanderers of the dark,and make them keep their caves.
o,but remember this another day,when he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,and say,poor margaret was a prophetess.
how shall i answer you?
who leads his power?
go,gentlemen,every man unto his charge.
is this the lord talbot,uncle gloucester,that hath so long been resident in france?
for orpheus lute was strung with poets sinews,whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,make tigers tame,and huge leviathans forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands.
this act so evilly borne shall cool the hearts of all his people,and freeze up their zeal,that none so small advantage shall step forth to check his reign,but they will cherish it;no natural exhalation in the sky,no scope of nature,no distemperd day,no common wind,no customed event,but they will pluck away his natural cause and call them meteors,prodigies,and signs,abortives,presages,and tongues of heaven,plainly denouncing vengeance upon john.
it is wars prize to take all vantages,and ten to one is no impeach of valour.
upon the corner of the moon there hangs a vaprous drop profound;ill catch it ere it come to ground:and that,distilld by magic sleights,shall raise such artificial sprites,as,by the strength of their illusion,shall draw him on to his confusion.
show now your mended faiths,and instantly return with me again,to push destruction and perpetual shame out of the weak door of our fainting land.
i shall be forsworn,which is a great argument of falsehood,if i love.
thou hast me,if thou hast me,at the worst;and thou shalt wear me,if thou wear me,better and better;and therefore tell me,most fair katharine,will you have me?
look where he comes.
if this be so,as yet the glass seems true,i shall have share in this most happy wreck.
come at my heels,jack rugby.
dear goddess,hear that prayer of the people!
that god forbid,that made me first your slave,i should in thought control your times of pleasure,or at your hand th account of hours to crave,being your vassal bound to stay your leisure.
look not pale,bianca;thy father will not frown.
nor i neither;but i can tell why a snail has a house.
alas,i should be a pitiful lady.
i have too few to take my leave of you,when the tongues office should be prodigal to breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
i am sent with broom before,to sweep the dust behind the door.
have i caught thee,my heavenly jewel?
was never widow had so dear a loss.
your master will be dead ere you return;theres nothing can be ministerd to nature that can recover him.
our general will no more hear from thence.
and i will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,where it was forged,with my rapiers point.
the lunatic,the lover,and the poet are of imagination all compact:one sees more devils than vast hell can hold;that is the madman:the lover,all as frantic,sees helens beauty in a brow of egypt:the poets eye,in a fine frenzy rolling,doth glance from heaven to earth,from earth to heaven;and as imagination bodies forth the forms of things unknown,the poets pen turns them to shapes,and gives to airy nothing a local habitation and a name.
go thou to friar penker;bid them both meet me within this hour at baynards castle.
well sift this matter further.
he beats me,and i rail at him.
the man i the moon!
ill make you quiet.
what said our cousin when you parted with him?
i have been consul and can show for rome her enemies marks upon me.
pity the dearth that i have pined in by longing for that food so long a time.
say if i do,the laws are mine,not thine:who can arraign me fort?
why,hath your principal made known unto you who i am?
how now,sirrah?
didst thou give all to thy two daughters?
you do him the more wrong,quoth i.
men may seet the better.
he lovd her,sir,and lovd her not.
thou injurious thief,hear but my name,and tremble.
no,not much movd.
shall i say to you let them be free,marry them to your heirs?
foot it featly here and there,and sweet sprites bear the burden.
sanssans,i pray you.
if i be not,heavens be revenged on me!
look,heres the warrant,claudio,for thy death.
why,so!
o gods!
thats even as fair as at hand,quoth the chamberlain,for thou variest no more from picking of purses than giving direction doth from labouring;thou layest the plot how.
so,hence!
i duly am informd his grace is at marseilles;to which place we have convenient convoy.
let it work;for tis the sport to have the enginer hoist with his own petard,and t shall go hard but i will delve one yard below their mines and blow them at the moon.
are these your herd?
if it might please you to enforce no further the griefs between ye;to forget them quite were to remember that the present need speaks to atone you.
this chair shall be my state,this dagger my sceptre,and this cushion my crown.
from whom hast thou this great commission,france,to draw my answer from thy articles?
go you down that way towards the capitol;this way will i.
bruised pieces,go;you have been nobly borne.
yet read the gamut of hortensio.
nay,be not angry,sir.
had i a steward so true,so just,and now so comfortable?
you see how all conditions,how all minds,as well of glib and slippry creatures as of grave and austere quality,tender down their services to lord timon.
and here being thus together,we are an endless mine to one another;we are one anothers wife,ever begetting new births of love;we are father,friends,acquaintance;we are,in one another,families;i am your heir,and you are mine.
i shall lack voice.
to milan let me hear from thee by letters of thy success in love,and what news else betideth here in absence of thy friend;and i likewise will visit thee with mine.
let me see wherein my tongue hath wronged him.
speak,man.
the rape of lucrece to the right honourable henry wriothesley,earl of southampton,and baron of titchfield.
sing,boy.
tis certain,greatness,once falln out with fortune,must fall out with men too.
now,good sir john,how like you windsor wives?
upon thy certainty and confidence what darst thou venture?
but why did he swear he would come this morning,and comes not?
but wheres my fool?
all lovers young,all lovers must consign to thee and come to dust.
portia,what mean you?
and yet,to me,what is this quintessence of dust?
the chariest maid is prodigal enough if she unmask her beauty to the moon.
thou art one o th false ones.
be you judge of your own cause.
trailst thou the puissant pike?
what a block art thou that thou canst not!
hes too big to go in there.
the throng that follows caesar at the heels,of senators,of praetors,common suitors,will crowd a feeble man almost to death:ill get me to a place more void,and there speak to great caesar as he comes along.
it seems he hath great care to please his wife.
see where it comes!
if you are so fond over her iniquity,give her patent to offend,for if it touch not you,it comes near nobody.
to send him word theyll meet him in the park at midnight?
let the mark have a prick int,to mete at,if it may be.
traitor?
re-enter tybalt.
sir,ye lie.
so oft have i invoked thee for my muse,and found such fair assistance in my verse,as every alien pen hath got my use,and under thee their poesy disperse.
as merry as crickets,my lad.
but,as you requested,yourself shall go betweens.
or spend a minutes time in pruning me?
lord cerimon hath letters of good credit,sir,my fathers dead.
i talk of you.
from antony win cleopatra.
shes lost past all cure.
proteus,the good conceit i hold of thee,for thou hast shown some sign of good desert,makes me the better to confer with thee.
o monstrous!
but do thy worst to steal thyself away,for term of life thou art assured mine,and life no longer than thy love will stay,for it depends upon that love of thine.
to beguile the time,look like the time;bear welcome in your eye,your hand,your tongue:look like the innocent flower,but be the serpent undert.
true,true,we are four.
o traitors,villains!
no,faith,my lord.
follow me,ned.
gentlemen,that i may soon make good what i have said,bianca,get you in:and let it not displease thee,good bianca,for i will love thee neer the less,my girl.
carried to colmekill,the sacred storehouse of his predecessors,and guardian of their bones.
a repulse;though your attempt,as you call it,deserve more;a punishment too.
methinks i should revive the soldiers hearts,because i ever found them as myself.
why grow the branches when the root is gone?
my dismal scene i needs must act alone.
are you not good?
what can be their business with me,a poor weak woman,fallen from favour?
you understand me.
i have it ready for thee.
for when she saw which never shall be foundyou did suspect she had disposed with caesar,and that your rage would not be purged,she sent you word she was dead;but fearing since how it might work,hath sent me to proclaim the truth,and i am come,i dread,too late.
ha,thou mountain-foreigner!
if,one by one,you wedded all the world,or from the all that are took something good,to make a perfect woman,she you killd would be unparalleld.
you sent me to the bay,sir,for a bark.
if you offend him,i for him defy you.
gloucester,why doubtst thou of my forwardness?
wend you with this letter.
you must away tonight.
let us hear him.
know ye don antonio,your countryman?
shepherd,go off a little.
and i am one that love bianca more than words can witness or your thoughts can guess.
see how yon justice rails upon yon simple thief.
i have heard of riding wagers where horses have been nimbler than the sands that run i th clocks behalf.
tis no matter for his swellings nor his turkey-cocks.
i do beseech you chiefly that i might set it in my prayers what is your name?
consider further,that when he speaks not like a citizen,you find him like a soldier.
for who is he,whose chin is but enrichd with one appearing hair,that will not follow these culld and choice-drawn cavaliers to france?
pure,pure idolatry.
did my heart love till now?
god,and saint george!
ay,where thou darst not peep;an if thou darst,this evening,on the east side of the grove.
ill shake em so,ye shall not sleep;ill make you a new morris.
no,madam,it is too sharp.
my lord,i found the prince in the next room,washing with kindly tears his gentle cheeks,with such a deep demeanour in great sorrow that tyranny,which never quaffd but blood,would,by beholding him,have washd his knife with gentle eye-drops.
ill free thee within two days for this.
the rudeness that hath appeared in me have i learned from my entertainment.
my babes were destined to a fairer death,if grace had blessed thee with a fairer life.
by heaven,poins,i feel me much to blame,so idly to profane the precious time,when tempest of commotion,like the south borne with black vapour,doth begin to melt and drop upon our bare unarmed heads.
unless you would devise some virtuous lie,to do more for me than mine own desert,and hang more praise upon deceased i,than niggard truth would willingly impart:o lest your true love may seem false in this,that you for love speak well of me untrue,my name be buried where my body is,and live no more to shame nor me,nor you.
suspicion always haunts the guilty mind;the thief doth fear each bush an officer.
well,i will lock his counsel in my breast;and what i do imagine,let that rest.
by the lord,this love is as mad as ajax.
who ever strove to show her merit that did miss her love?
god save you,master doctor caius!
see,sons,what things you are,how quickly nature falls into revolt when gold becomes her object!
he shall,sir,andt please him.
but soft;my door is lockd.
if you come slack of former services,you shall do well;the fault of it ill answer.
why,this is the best fooling,when all is done.
all our pleasure known to us poor swains,all our merry meetings on the plains,all our evening sport from us is fled,all our love is lost,for love is dead.
the lord in heaven bless thee,noble harry!
will you deliver how this dead queen relives?
first i began in private with you,my lord of lincoln.
it likes us well.
and thats a good root.
rise,egypt.
no tongue but huberts.
why then,we shall have a stirring world again.
ay,and glad we scapd so well.
see,they forsake me.
my services to your lordship.
mark the music.
we are young and yet desire the ways of honour;that liberty and common conversation,the poison of pure spirits,might like women,woo us to wander from.
cousins,indeed,and by their uncle cozened of comfort,kingdom,kindred,freedom,life.
have comfort,for i know your plight is pitied of him that caused it.
he,true knight,no lesser of her honour confident than i did truly find her,stakes this ring;and would so,had it been a carbuncle of phoebus wheel;and might so safely,had it been all the worth ofs car.
sir,i am too old to learn:call not your stocks for me:i serve the king;on whose employment i was sent to you:you shall do small respect,show too bold malice against the grace and person of my master,stocking his messenger.
come,come,i know tis good for you.
for thy mistaking so,we pardon thee.
i will verify as much in his beard.
you may command us,sir.
the sweet war-man is dead and rotten.
be not so loud.
and blessed are those whose blood and judgement are so well co-mingled that they are not a pipe for fortunes finger to sound what stop she please.
not one word more,my maids;break off,break off.
i partly think a due sincerity governed his deeds till he did look on me.
i have persuaded him the youths a devil.
tis th account of all that world of wealth i have drawn together for mine own endsindeed,to gain the popedom and fee my friends in rome.
let frantic talbot triumph for a while and like a peacock sweep along his tail;well pull his plumes and take away his train,if dauphin and the rest will be but ruled.
well sir,for want of other idleness,ill bide your proof.
i am.
my love is most immaculate white and red.
you would have been contracted to a maid;nor are you therein,by my life,deceived:you are betrothd both to a maid and man.
i would not be thy executioner;i fly thee,for i would not injure thee.
besides,he brings his destiny with him.
what should this be?
come on,then,i will swear to study so,to know the thing i am forbid to know:as thus,to study where i well may dine,when i to feast expressly am forbid;or study where to meet some mistress fine,when mistresses from common sense are hid;or,having sworn too hard-a-keeping oath,study to break it,and not break my troth.
ask me when thou wilt,and thou shalt have it.
fairly answered.
even she.
vouchsafe my labour,and long live your lordship.
and let him ply his music.
provide me soldiers,lords,whiles i take order for mine own affairs.
ist like that lead contains her?
sir,list to me:i am my fathers heir and only son;if i may have your daughter to my wife,ill leave her houses three or four as good within rich pisas walls as anyone old signior gremio has in padua;besides two thousand ducats by the year of fruitful land,all which shall be her jointure.
my father at the road expects my coming,there to see me shipped.
where is achilles?
i have news to tell you.
the stronger part of it by her own letters,which makes her story true,even to the point of her death.
art thou one of the worthies?
swift,swift,you dragons of the night,that dawning may bare the ravens eye!
be packing,therefore,thou that wast a knight;henceforth we banish thee on pain of death.
o sovereign mistress of true melancholy,the poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,that life,a very rebel to my will,may hang no longer on me.
the honour,sir,that flames in your fair eyes,before i speak,too threatningly replies.
no hope to have redress?
his father and i were soldiers together,to whom i have been often bound for no less than my life.
if thou hast any sound,or use of voice,speak to me.
even he that makes her queen.
my tongue,though not my heart,shall have his will.
we like not this.
we had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth.
speak,fair;but speak fair words,or else be mute:give me one kiss,ill give it thee again,and one for intrest,if thou wilt have twain.
your prattling nurse into a rapture lets her baby cry while she chats him.
proceed,directly.
devils take em,that are so envious to me!
what tell you me of it?
sweet,adieu!
call in ribs,call in tallow.
while we pursued the horsemen of the north,he slyly stole away and left his men;whereat the great lord of northumberland,whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,cheered up the drooping army;and himself,lord clifford,and lord stafford,all abreast,charged our main battles front,and breaking in,were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
they are.
good my friends,consider you are my guests.
o,heaven forgive us!
lord talbot,do not so dishonour me.
it could not be judged,sir.
wheres the roll?
let us on,and publish the occasion of our arms.
and this was it i gave him,being abed.
what is it that you would impart to me?
good morrow.
mistress anne page?
to safeguard thine own life,the best way is to venge my gloucesters death.
try what repentance can.
hadst thou not order?
now come i to my mother.
this will prove a brave kingdom to me,where i shall have my music for nothing.
i am informed that he comes towards london to set the crown once more on henrys head.
romes emperor,and nephew,break the parle;these quarrels must be quietly debated.
his eye drops fire,no water thence proceeds;those round clear pearls of his that move thy pity,are balls of quenchless fire to burn thy city.
thou liest!
rather make my countrys high pyramides my gibbet and hang me up in chains!
my good knave eros,now thy captain is even such a body.
but sea-room,and the brine and cloudy billow kiss the moon,i care not.
i am a rogue if i drunk today.
how beauteous mankind is!
come,sister,you shall be the priest and marry us.
our subjects,sir,will not endure his yoke;and for ourself to show less sovereignty than they,must needs appear unkinglike.
is that an answer?
stand up,i say.
peace,sirrah!
no doubt,no doubt;and so shall clarence too,for they that were your enemies are his,and have prevailed as much on him as you.
no further go in this than i by letters shall direct your course.
there will we make our peds of roses and a thousand fragrant posies.
the queen of fairies still lying asleep.
edward thy son,that now is prince of wales,for edward our son,that was prince of wales,die in his youth by like untimely violence.
on my honour,i speak my good lord cardinal to this point and thus far clear him.
pride hath no other glass to show itself but pride;for supple knees feed arrogance and are the proud mans fees.
go,i discharge thee of thy prisoner,and i thank thee.
i have told my last hour.
mistress page is come with me,sweetheart.
ten thousand french have taen the sacrament to rive their dangerous artillery upon no christian soul but english talbot.
call her again.
antonio,o my dear antonio!
i believe you;your honour and your goodness teach me tot,without your vows.
but i would fain die a dry death.
o,this life is nobler than attending for a check,richer than doing nothing for a robe,prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk:such gain the cap of him that makes him fine,yet keeps his book uncrossd.
why,tell me,is not this my cambio?
o,you are well tund now,but ill set down the pegs that make this music,as honest as i am.
and,sir,tonight,i do entreat that we may sup together.
whether he was combind with those of norway,or did line the rebel with hidden help and vantage,or that with both he labourd in his countrys wrack,i know not;but treasons capital,confessd and provd,have overthrown him.
bring it,i pray you,to the porpentine,for theres the house.
tis not due yet,i would be loth to pay him before his day.
poor desdemona!
he sent to me,sirhere he comes.
here comes the emperor.
ay,tis strong,and it does indifferent well in a damd-colourd stock.
where go you with bats and clubs?
antony,leave thy lascivious wassails.
he came with flowers to strew his ladys grave,and bid me stand aloof,and so i did.
go,philostrate,stir up the athenian youth to merriments;awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth;turn melancholy forth to funerals;the pale companion is not for our pomp.
and what said surrey then?
the steed is stalled up,and even now to tie the rider she begins to prove:backward she pushd him,as she would be thrust,and governd him in strength,though not in lust.
then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends?
what,shall they seek the lion in his den,and fright him there?
go to your bosom,knock there,and ask your heart what it doth know thats like my brothers fault.
i have used it,nuncle,eer since thou madst thy daughters thy mothers;for when thou gavst them the rod,and putst down thine own breeches,then they for sudden joy did weep,and i for sorrow sung,that such a king should play bo-peep,and go the fools among.
o,a pit of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet.
mark me now,now will i raise the waters.
the great.
i have heard,sir,of such a man,who hath a daughter of most rare note:the report of her is extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage.
follow me and receive t.
heaven bless him!
my lord,because we have business of more moment,we will be short with you.
must you,sir john,protect my lady here?
pardon me,pardon me.
how blest am i in my just censure,in my true opinion!
as i am a gentleman,i will live to be thankful to thee fort.
nothing almost sees miracles but misery.
he shall do this,or else i do recant the pardon that i late pronounced here.
my heart weeps to see him so little of his great self.
i have no exquisite reason fort,but i have reason good enough.
my poor body,madam,requires it;i am driven on by the flesh,and he must needs go that the devil drives.
there comes none here.
that head,my lord?
o,what pity enough for such a chance?
no,youll reveal it.
ay,and better too;we offend worse.
menas,ill not on shore.
and to survey his dead and earthy image,what were it but to make my sorrow greater?
or,with the rest,where is your darling rutland?
this becomes the great.
i am thinking,brother,of a prediction i read this other day,what should follow these eclipses.
how say you?
he lets me feed with his hinds,bars me the place of a brother,and as much as in him lies,mines my gentility with my education.
i was not made a horse,and yet i bear a burden like an ass,spurred,galled and tired by jauncing bolingbroke.
i thought it would have mounted.
if my sight fail not,you should be lord ambassador from the emperor,my royal nephew,and your name caputius.
o,charles the dauphin is a proper man;no shape but his can please your dainty eye.
sirs,stand apart;the king shall know your mind.
demetrius thinks not so;he will not know what all but he do know.
for my dinner.
you wrongd yourself to write in such a case.
besides,antonio certified the duke they were not with bassanio in his ship.
lord timons mad.
how now,meg?
if he but blench,i know my course.
let us do so:for we are at the stake,and bayd about with many enemies;and some that smile have in their hearts,i fear,millions of mischiefs.
you draw me,you hard-hearted adamant,but yet you draw not iron,for my heart is true as steel.
well,for this night we will repose us here;tomorrow toward london back again,to look into this business thoroughly,and call these foul offenders to their answers,and poise the cause in justice equal scales,whose beam stands sure,whose rightful cause prevails.
give me some wine,fill full.
to what base uses we may return,horatio!
o,let her brother live.
thou art a traitor and a miscreant,too good to be so and too bad to live,since the more fair and crystal is the sky,the uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
i wonder how the king escaped our hands.
he does,he does,well be revenged on him.
your actions are my dreams.
oman,art thou lunatics?
were not you then as cruel as the sentence that you have slandered so?
i will bestow a breakfast to make you friends;and well be all three sworn brothers to france.
i,that denied thee gold,will give my heart:strike as thou didst at caesar;for i know,when thou didst hate him worst,thou lovedst him better than ever thou lovedst cassius.
but yet i say,if imputation and strong circumstances,which lead directly to the door of truth,will give you satisfaction,you may havet.
yea,is the worst well?
when i have pluckd thy rose,i cannot give it vital growth again,it must needs wither.
then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil.
leave you,wherefore?
he will not say so.
it is a kind of history.
i pray you,how many hath he killed and eaten in these wars?
if you mark alexanders life well,harry of monmouths life is come after it indifferent well;for there is figures in all things.
shalls have a play of this?
it is a mind that shall remain a poison where it is,not poison any further.
the welcome ever smiles,and farewell goes out sighing.
my deeds upon my head!
what,at the wheels of caesar?
nay,rather damn them with king cerberus;and let the welkin roar.
tell me what state,what dignity,what honour,canst thou demise to any child of mine?
but,ant please you,deliver.
if i am traduced by ignorant tongues,which neither know my faculties nor person,yet will be the chronicles of my doing,let me say tis but the fate of place,and the rough brake that virtue must go through.
do you hear aught,sir,of a battle toward?
i tore it from the traitors bosom,king.
it agrees well,passant.
thy father!
god save the king,although i be not he,and yet,amen,if heaven do think him me.
o,if i had had time to have made new liveries,i would have bestowed the thousand pound i borrowed of you.
with such holiness can you do it?
by and by is easily said.
let not my sister read it in your eye;be not thy tongue thy own shames orator;look sweet,speak fair,become disloyalty;apparel vice like virtues harbinger;bear a fair presence though your heart be tainted;teach sin the carriage of a holy saint,be secret-false.
tis necessary he should die.
what say you,bottom?
tis not my fault,nor wittingly have i infringed my vow.
heres a fish hangs in the net,like a poor mans right in the law;twill hardly come out.
cry,trojans,cry.
thy business?
true,made the lame to leap and fly away.
a goodly lady,trust me,of the hue that i would choose,were i to choose anew.
the nobility are vexed,whom we see have sided in his behalf.
i will do it;and this night,or tomorrow,he shall love me.
why,do you not perceive the jest?
bring me to him.
o heavens!
the commons hast thou racked;the clergys bags are lank and lean with thy extortions.
theres no art to find the minds construction in the face:he was a gentleman on whom i built an absolute trust.
about the wood go swifter than the wind,and helena of athens look thou find.
upon what bargain do you give it me?
labeo and flavius,set our battles on.
all that stand about him are under the line;they need no other penance.
my own knee?
and arms her with the boldness of a wife to her allowing husband!
trinculo,the king and all our company else being drowned,we will inherit here.
how now!
o lord archbishop,thou hast made me now a man.
where learned you that oath,fool?
let the court of france show me such another.
good hearts,what ado here is to bring you together!
that was my ladys voice.
it may be;ill prove it:the cover of the salt hides the salt,and therefore it is more than the salt;the hair that covers the wit is more than the wit,for the greater hides the less.
first varros servant.
come,come,our empress,with her sacred wit to villainy and vengeance consecrate,will we acquaint with all what we intend;and she shall file our engines with advice that will not suffer you to square yourselves,but to your wishes height advance you both.
o lord,have mercy on us,wretched sinners!
how fares your majesty?
your husbands here at hand.
but wheres the great alcides of the field,valiant lord talbot,earl of shrewsbury,created for his rare success in arms great earl of washford,waterford,and valence,lord talbot of goodrig and urchinfield,lord strange of blackmere,lord verdun of alton,lord cromwell of wingfield,lord furnival of sheffield,the thrice victorious lord of falconbridge,knight of the noble order of saint george,worthy saint michael,and the golden fleece,great marshal to henry the sixth of all his wars within the realm of france?
nay,and most like.
with thy approach,i know,my comfort comes along.
i first appear,though rude and raw and muddy,to speak before thy noble grace this tenner,at whose great feet i offer up my penner.
you have killed a sweet lady,and her death shall fall heavy on you.
she soon shall know of us,by some of ours,how honourable and how kindly we determine for her.
is it four oclock?
that i am not.
for you,edmund,whose virtue and obedience doth this instant so much commend itself,you shall be ours:natures of such deep trust we shall much need;you we first seize on.
but will you be more justified?
re-enter ariel,playing and singing;ferdinand following.
the gods give him joy,and make him good friend to the people!
you laying these slight sullies on my son,as twere a thing a little soild i th working,mark you,your party in converse,him you would sound,having ever seen in the prenominate crimes the youth you breathe of guilty,be assurd he closes with you in this consequence;good sir,or so;or friend,or gentleman according to the phrase or the addition of man and country.
fell sorrows tooth doth never rankle more than when it bites but lanceth not the sore.
ill humbly signify what in his name,that magical word of war,we have effected;how,with his banners,and his well-paid ranks,the neer-yet-beaten horse of parthia we have jaded out o th field.
hes a god or a painter,for he makes faces.
first he did praise my beauty,then my speech.
i do embrace thee as i would embrace the christian prince,king henry,were he here.
virginity,by being once lost,may be ten times found;by being ever kept,it is ever lost.
cassio knows you not.
and i in going,madam,weep oer my fathers death anew;but i must attend his majestys command,to whom i am now in ward,evermore in subjection.
madam,we are here.
not when i sawt.
briefly,i have pursued her as love hath pursued me,which hath been on the wing of all occasions.
they cannot both enjoy you.
and that blood we desire to shed is mutual,in me thine,and in thee mine.
the heavens were all on fire,the earth did tremble.
and you.
your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex.
o gertrude,gertrude,when sorrows come,they come not single spies,but in battalions.
go,with her,with her.
if he were living,i would try him yet;lend me an arm;the rest have worn me out with several applications;nature and sickness debate it at their leisure.
for if my brother but even now had asked me whether i loved,i had run mad for arcite;now,if my sister,more for palamon.
o,no;for the dukes daughter,her cousin,so loves her,being ever from their cradles bred together,that she would have followed her exile or have died to stay behind her.
i do believe it.
here on this molehill will i sit me down.
lord,lord,how the ladies and i have put him down!
but know i come not to hear such flattery now,and in my presence they are too thin and bare to hide offences.
the grief is fine,full,perfect,that i taste,and violenteth in a sense as strong as that which causeth it.
what most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;what like,offensive.
you of my household,leave this peevish broil,and set this unaccustomd fight aside.
come,come,no more of that.
ay;but peace,lets hear em.
the sweat of industry would dry and die but for the end it works to.
i long to die,if what thou speakst speak not of remedy.
i took him for the plainest harmless creature that breathed upon the earth a christian;made him my book,wherein my soul recorded the history of all her secret thoughts.
and to your royal grace and the good queen,my noble partners and myself thus pray all comfort,joy,in this most gracious lady heaven ever laid up to make parents happy may hourly fall upon ye!
when the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,but creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
thou,my slave,as thou reportst thyself,wast then her servant;and,for thou wast a spirit too delicate to act her earthy and abhorrd commands,refusing her grand hests,she did confine thee,by help of her more potent ministers,and in her most unmitigable rage,into a cloven pine;within which rift imprisond,thou didst painfully remain a dozen years;within which space she died,and left thee there,where thou didst vent thy groans as fast as mill-wheels strike.
here,as i point my sword,the sun arises;which is a great way growing on the south,weighing the youthful season of the year.
did this companion with the saffron face revel and feast it at my house today,whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut,and i denied to enter in my house?
bear with me,cousin,for i was amazd under the tide,but now i breathe again aloft the flood,and can give audience to any tongue,speak it of what it will.
my general cares not for you.
a fig!
what wilt thou do,renowned faulconbridge?
eleven buckram men grown out of two!
prithee,no more:thou dost talk nothing to me.
this burst of clamour is sure th end o th combat.
irreparable is the loss,and patience says it is past her cure.
yea;wherefore should she not?
she kneels.
lay hold upon him,if he do resist,subdue him at his peril.
are you sick,hubert?
what part is that,my lord?
madam,and if my brother had my shape and i had his,sir roberts his,like him;and if my legs were two such riding-rods,my arms such eel-skins stuffd,my face so thin that in mine ear i durst not stick a rose lest men should say look where three-farthings goes!
farewell,and if my fortune be not crost,i have a father,you a daughter,lost.
but now the arbitrator of despairs,just death,kind umpire of mens miseries,with sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence.
duke of suffolk,in his robe of estate,his coronet on his head,bearing a long white wand,as high steward.
willt please your grace to go along with us?
my treasures in the harbour.
betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,and each doth good turns now unto the other,when that mine eye is famished for a look,or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother;with my loves picture then my eye doth feast,and to the painted banquet bids my heart:another time mine eye is my hearts guest,and in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
camillo has betrayd me;whose honour and whose honesty till now,endurd all weathers.
but,sir,here comes your boy;twere good he were schoold.
i think if i had such a tire,this face of mine were full as lovely as is this of hers;and yet the painter flattered her a little,unless i flatter with myself too much.
i would the fool were married to her grave.
whos there?
canst thou blame him?
sir,she can turn,and turn,and yet go on,and turn again.
thou for whom jove would swear juno but an ethiope were,and deny himself for jove,turning mortal for thy love.
did he ask for me?
it is your music,madam,of the house.
the chain!
my dear dear lord,the purest treasure mortal times afford is spotless reputation;that away,men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
you are she.
where do you live?
she it is.
subjects may challenge nothing of their sovereigns;but if an humble prayer may prevail,i then crave pardon of your majesty.
was ever man so weary?
what villain,madam?
thanks,good friend escalus,for thy much goodness;theres more behind that is more gratulate.
have patience,madam.
thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,but certain issue strokes must arbitrate;towards which advance the war.
and all my children?
mass,thou sayest true.
this visitation is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
mine,hal,mine.
the king reposeth all his confidence in thee.
where shall we meet i the morning?
that is hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
a word with you.
before i knew thee,hal,i knew nothing,and now am i,if a man should speak truly,little better than one of the wicked.
i am the fellow with the great belly,and he my dog.
why should titania cross her oberon?
i humbly thank you.
labienus this is stiff newshath with his parthian force extended asia from euphrates his conquering banner shook from syria to lydia and to ionia,whilst antony,thou wouldst say o,my lord!
why should a dog,a horse,a rat have life,and thou no breath at all?
but have you forgot your love?
o gentlemen,the time of life is short!
for at hand,not trusting to this halting legate here,whom he hath usd rather for sport than need,is warlike john;and in his forehead sits a bare-ribbd death,whose office is this day to feast upon whole thousands of the french.
the third knight passes by,and his squire presents his shield to thaisa.
not so hot,good sir;i come to bring him sleep.
it is marring indeed,if he quarter it.
name it.
it is the east,and juliet is the sun!
know that it was he,in the times past,which held you so under fortune,which you thought had been our innocent self?
performance shall follow.
a goodly medicine for my aching bones!
but when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,and that thy summer bred us no increase,we set the axe to thy usurping root;and though the edge hath something hit ourselves,yet know thou,since we have begun to strike,well never leave till we have hewn thee down or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
good een to your worships.
then if they die unprovided,no more is the king guilty of their damnation than he was before guilty of those impieties for the which they are now visited.
to your worships house,sir?
and trust,his sworn brother,a very simple gentleman!
go to,i faith;and thou wilt needs thrust thy neck into a yoke,wear the print of it and sigh away sundays.
so should i be sure to be heartburnt.
reignier,her father,to the king of france hath pawned the sicils and jerusalem,and hither have they sent it for her ransom.
i will wink on her to consent,my lord,if you will teach her to know my meaning;for maids,well summerd and warm kept,are like flies at bartholomew-tide,blind,though they have their eyes;and then they will endure handling,which before would not abide looking on.
how now?
they owe me nothing.
nay,but thou shalt stay too.
come hither,you rogue.
beshrew me,sir,but if he make this good,he is as worthy for an empress love as meet to be an emperors counsellor.
by faith and honour,our madams mock at us,and plainly say our mettle is bred out,and they will give their bodies to the lust of english youth to new-store france with bastard warriors.
if he be not in love with some woman,there is no believing old signs:a brushes his hat a mornings;what should that bode?
i have well approved it,sir.
from the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
now,master sheriff,what is your will with me?
but,warwick,thou and oxford,with five thousand men,shall cross the seas and bid false edward battle;and,as occasion serves,this noble queen and prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
alas,sweet wife,my honour is at pawn,and,but my going,nothing can redeem it.
might we but have that happiness,my lord,that you would once use our hearts,whereby we might express some part of our zeals,we should think ourselves for ever perfect.
we may go whistle;all the fats i th fire.
sirs,i will practise on this drunken man.
thou art a robber,a law-breaker,a villain.
yes,but you care not for me.
ay,he does well enough if he be disposed,and so do i too;he does it with a better grace,but i do it more natural.
shall henrys conquest,bedfords vigilance,your deeds of war,and all our counsel die?
come,come,away!
be not fond,to think that caesar bears such rebel blood that will be thawd from the true quality with that which melteth fools;i mean sweet words,low-crooked curtsies,and base spaniel fawning.
you make a leg,and bolingbroke says ay.
he that stands in the first place with arcite,by his seeming should be a stout man,by his face a prince,his very looks so say him;his complexion nearer a brown than black,stern and yet noble,which shows him hardy,fearless,proud of dangers;the circles of his eyes show fire within him,and as a heated lion so he looks.
they were young and handsome,and of the best breed in the north.
or like a whale.
twas my inheritance,as the earldom was.
wert thou the devil and worst it on thy horn,it should be challengd.
whats the matter?
one of these three contains her heavenly picture.
why,how now,long-tongued warwick,dare you speak?
those that are good manners at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the behaviour of the country is most mockable at the court.
then every soldier kill his prisoners;give the word through.
banquo and donalbain!
what,then,do you see?
for that our kingdoms earth should not be soiled with that dear blood which it hath fostered;and for our eyes do hate the dire aspect of civil wounds ploughed up with neighbours swords;and for we think the eagle-winged pride of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,with rival-hating envy,set on you to wake our peace,which in our countrys cradle draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep,which so roused up with boistrous untuned drums,with harsh-resounding trumpets dreadful bray,and grating shock of wrathful iron arms,might from our quiet confines fright fair peace and make us wade even in our kindreds blood:therefore we banish you our territories.
i know he doth not,and do arm myself to welcome the condition of the time,which cannot look more hideously upon me than i have drawn it in my fantasy.
i faith,sweet love,i was coming to your house.
did they?
if you could find out a country where but women were that had received so much shame,you might begin an impudent nation.
rather than have em freed of this plight,and in their morning state,sound and at liberty,i would em dead;but forty-thousandfold we had rather have em prisoners to us than death.
i,beyond all limit of what else i the world,do love,prize,honour you.
brother,good day.
and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than their even christian.
a plague upon her!
i have sworn.
meet it is i set it down,that one may smile,and smile,and be a villain!
pray,sir,tell me that.
i am well and lusty;choose your arms.
give me leave,ill go to him and undertake to bring him where he shall answer by a lawful form,in peace,to his utmost peril.
yet,on my conscience,there are verier knaves desire to live,for all he be a roman;and there be some of them too that die against their wills;so should i,if i were one.
sayst thou me so?
heaven mend all!
o good sir,my master charged me to deliver a ring to madam silvia,which out of my neglect was never done.
thats my brave boy!
this fever that hath troubled me so long lies heavy on me.
this bond doth give thee here no jot of blood.
two of both kinds makes up four.
then no,my lord.
he is your husband on a pre-contract.
your reputation comes too short for my daughter;you are no husband for her.
i thank god!
sir,i will walk here in the hall.
fie,fie,fie!
if circumstances lead me,i will find where truth is hid,though it were hid indeed within the centre.
you are passing welcome,and so i pray you all to think yourselves.
prithee,friend,pour out the pack of matter to mine ear,the good and bad together:hes friends with caesar,in state of health,thou sayst;and,thou sayst,free.
insulting charles!
i think foundations fly the wretched;such,i mean,where they should be relievd.
well,my lord.
i will;and so will she,i know,my lord.
had i a glass i would.
why lament you,pretty one?
ho,no,no,no,no:my meaning in saying he is a good man is to have you understand me that he is sufficient.
call it a travel that thou takst for pleasure.
what says monsieur remorse?
i then,all smarting with my wounds being cold,out of my grief and my impatience to be so pesterd with a popinjay,answerd neglectingly,i know not what,he should,or he should not;for he made me mad to see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet,and talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman of guns and drums and wounds,god save the mark!
and shall i stand,and thou sit in my throne?
there is no world without verona walls,but purgatory,torture,hell itself.
i might ask you for your commission.
give me.
no,since.
he like a puling cuckold would drink up the lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece;you,like a lecher,out of whorish loins are pleasd to breed out your inheritors.
when he was brought again to th bar to hear his knell rung out,his judgement,he was stirred with such an agony,he sweat extremely and something spoke in choler,ill and hasty.
come;ill manacle thy neck and feet together:sea-water shalt thou drink;thy food shall be the fresh-brook mussels,witherd roots,and husks wherein the acorn cradled.
so god help montague as he proves true!
if he should do so,he leaves his back unarmd,the french and welsh baying him at the heels:never fear that.
fare you well:i thank you for your pains:spend this for me.
what would you with me,honest neighbour?
i have said shes an adultress;i have said with whom:more,shes a traitor,and camillo is a federary with her;and one that knows what she should shame to know herself but with her most vile principal,that shes a bed-swerver,even as bad as those that vulgars give boldst titles;ay,and privy to this their late escape.
vent my folly!
whats the noise?
thoudst have,great glamis,that which cries,thus thou must do,if thou have it;and that which rather thou dost fear to do,than wishest should be undone.
anon,anon!
and heres a prophet that i brought with me from forth the streets of pomfret,whom i found with many hundreds treading on his heels;to whom he sung,in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,that,ere the next ascension-day at noon,your highness should deliver up your crown.
will you buy any tape,or lace for your cape,my dainty duck,my dear-a?
i was beaten myself into all the colours of the rainbow,and was like to be apprehended for the witch of brentford.
buckingham,to disturb me?
varros servant.
my gracious lord,you look beyond him quite.
i might call him a thing divine;for nothing natural i ever saw so noble.
not his that spoils her young before her face.
madam,i was not old sir roberts son.
who found this letter?
what do you call your knights name,sirrah?
they have een put my breath from me,the slaves.
to th rock,to th rock with him!
god save you,sir!
which is that adversary?
here they come down.
i made in to her.
give me your hand.
thou art a cobbler,art thou?
to satisfy your highness,and the entreaties of our most gracious mistress.
i have seen the day,with my good biting falchion i would have made them skip.
hes very knowing;i do perceivet.
fare ye well.
he cannot scape me.
and yet not so,for what can we bequeath save our deposed bodies to the ground?
come,cordial and not poison,go with me to juliets grave,for there must i use thee.
yet him for this,my love no whit disdaineth,suns of the world may stain,when heavens sun staineth.
make them be strong and ready for this hint when we shall hap to givet them.
good sir,be a man.
will you not dance?
after the bloody fray at wakefield fought,where your brave father breathed his latest gasp,tidings,as swiftly as the posts could run,were brought me of your loss and his depart.
heavens make our presence and our practices pleasant and helpful to him.
whats here?
nurse,will you go with me into my closet,to help me sort such needful ornaments as you think fit to furnish me tomorrow?
the noise goes,this:there is among the greeks a lord of trojan blood,nephew to hector;they call him ajax.
this will i do,and soon return again.
night and silence!
how seems he to be touched?
give me the lie,do;and try whether i am not now a gentleman born.
pray you keep your way.
yonder she comes.
to marry him is hopeless;to be his whore is witless.
butchers and villains,bloody cannibals!
rogues,hence,avaunt!
well,jest on,brothers.
yet let em look they glory not in mischief,nor build their evils on the graves of great men,for then my guiltless blood must cry against em.
when proteus cannot love where hes beloved.
all men make faults,and even i in this,authorizing thy trespass with compare,my self corrupting salving thy amiss,excusing thy sins more than thy sins are:for to thy sensual fault i bring in sense;thy adverse party is thy advocate,and gainst my self a lawful plea commence:such civil war is in my love and hate,that i an accessary needs must be,to that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.
why,how dost thou,man?
no,page;it is an epilogue or discourse to make plain some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.
this is the foul fiend flibbertigibbet:he begins at curfew,and walks till the first cock;he gives the web and the pin,squints the eye,and makes the harelip;mildews the white wheat,and hurts the poor creature of earth.
i would he lovd his wife;if he were honester he were much goodlier.
yet if thy thoughts,bianca,be so humble to cast thy wandring eyes on every stale,seize thee that list:if once i find thee ranging,hortensio will be quit with thee by changing.
john and robert.
are you a comedian?
when you speak best unto the purpose,it is not worth the wagging of your beards,and your beards deserve not so honourable a grave as to stuff a botchers cushion or to be entombed in an asss packsaddle.
within this half hour will he be asleep.
all is on the rout,fear frames disorder,and disorder wounds where it should guard.
five or six thousand;but very weak and unserviceable:the troops are all scattered,and the commanders very poor rogues,upon my reputation and credit,and as i hope to live.
o world,thou wast the forest to this hart;and this indeed,o world,the heart of thee.
heaven give your spirits comfort!
he rests not in this tomb.
here is the guess of their true strength and forces by diligent discovery;but your haste is now urgd on you.
it was an answer.
ill no pullet sperm in my brewage.
i will go meet him.
youll mar all.
i will discharge upon her,sir john,with two bullets.
what of him?
what,are my doors opposed against my passage?
lets all sink wi th king.
with henrys death the english circle ends;dispersed are the glories it included.
counterfeit,i assure you.
with this she falleth in the place she stood,and stains her face with his congealed blood.
we found him in the churchyard.
you stand upon your honour!
nay,whip me then;hell rather give her two.
a mellifluous voice,as i am true knight.
the old proverb is very well parted between my master shylock and you,sir:you have the grace of god,sir,and he hath enough.
why,how now,hecate?
if all the wine in my bottle will recover him,i will help his ague.
who art thou?
excellent good.
indeed your o lord,sir!
five hundred ducats,villain,for a rope?
one score twixt sun and sun,madam,s enough for you,and too much too.
cleomenes the climates delicate;the air most sweet,fertile the isle,the temple much surpassing the common praise it bears.
lorenzo certain,and my love indeed,for who love i so much?
it fits when such a villain is a guest:ill not endure him.
has the porter his eyes in his head,that he gives entrance to such companions?
she took the ring of me:ill none of it.
come,my masters,let us share,and then to horse before day.
i pluck this red rose with young somerset,and say withal i think he held the right.
are the horses ready?
tomorrow,as he purposes.
no,i eat not lords.
i told him what i thought,and told no more than what he found himself was apt and true.
come,i have found you out a stand most fit,where you may have such vantage on the duke he shall not pass you.
and if you love me,as you say you do,let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
believe me,lords,were none more wise than i and yet herein i judge mine own wit good this gloucester should be quickly rid the world,to rid us from the fear we have of him.
here,with a cup thats stored unto the brim,as you do love,fill to your mistress lips,we drink this health to you.
fear,and not love,begets his penitence.
by gis and by saint charity,alack,and fie for shame!
gentlemen,why do you stir so early?
you are very short with us;but if we live,well be as sharp with you.
pour on;i will endure:in such a night as this!
between the acres of the rye,with a hey,and a ho,and a hey nonino,these pretty country folks would lie,in the spring-time,the only pretty ring time,when birds do sing,hey ding a ding,ding.
if a christian do not play the knave and get thee,i am much deceived.
trumpets sound.
and yet you halt not.
ay,ay,a scratch,a scratch.
come,i know thou lovest me;and at night,when you come into your closet,youll question this gentlewoman about me;and i know,kate,you will to her dispraise those parts in me that you love with your heart.
i have received my proportion,like the prodigious son,and am going with sir proteus to the imperials court.
look how he makes to caesar:mark him.
i must from this enchanting queen break off.
in an hour.
mad kings!
droop now?
hark,the land bids me tread no more upont.
my lord,my lord,you are a sectary,thats the plain truth.
he shall know you better,sir,if i may live to report you.
may defend thee.
whiles they each other cross,lives,honours,lands,and all hurry to loss.
the moon shines bright.
sir,i do know you;and dare,upon the warrant of my note commend a dear thing to you.
budge,says the fiend.
he commands us to provide,and give great gifts,and all out of an empty coffer;nor will he know his purse or yield me this:to show him what a beggar his heart is,being of no power to make his wishes good.
the villain would not stand me.
yea,him i do not love that tells close offices the foulest way,nor names concealments in the boldest language.
no,sir:i could not forget you,for i never saw you before in all my life.
sir roberts son!
i was before master tisick,the debuty tother day,and,as he said to me,twas no longer ago than wednesday last,i good faith,neighbour quickly,says hemaster dumb,our minister,was by thenneighbour quickly,says he,receive those that are civil,for,said he you are in an ill name.
there cannot be a pinch in death more sharp than this is.
ill warrant you,within these three or four days ill make her right again.
hear the truth of it.
peace!
o,help now!
where have you this?
ay,ill be sworn.
here comes lean jack,here comes bare-bone.
what were i best to say?
hes as far from jealousy as i am from giving him cause,and that,i hope,is an unmeasurable distance.
if so,be patient,sister.
mi perdonato,gentle master mine;i am in all affected as yourself;glad that you thus continue your resolve to suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
and that he will and shall,if lucius live.
i will bespeak our diet whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge with viewing of the town.
o,stay but till then!
we offer fair,take it advisedly.
no perfection in reversion shall have a praise in present.
a talbot!
his forward voice now is to speak well of his friend;his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract.
strange things i have in head,that will to hand,which must be acted ere they may be scannd.
tut,lucius,this was but a deed of charity to that which thou shalt hear of me anon.
the mayor towards guildhall hies him in all post.
bring them away.
you gods,look down,and from your sacred vials pour your graces upon my daughters head!
let me say no,my liege,an if you please.
then,good my liege,mistake me not so much to think my poverty is treacherous.
my lord,theres an army gathered together in smithfield.
though in this place most master wear no breeches,she shall not strike dame eleanor unrevenged.
and how out of count?
therefore tell me true;but tell me then,tis so;for,look,thy cheeks confess it,tone to thother;and thine eyes see it so grossly shown in thy behaviours,that in their kind they speak it;only sin and hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,that truth should be suspected.
the nobleness of life is to do thus;when such a mutual pair and such a twain can dot,in which i bind,on pain of punishment,the world to weet we stand up peerless.
he writes brave verses,speaks brave words,swears brave oaths,and breaks them bravely,quite traverse,athwart the heart of his lover,as a puny tilter,that spurs his horse but on one side,breaks his staff like a noble goose.
but will it not live with the living?
couple,then,and see whats wanting.
my lady goes to kill horns,but if thou marry,hang me by the neck if horns that year miscarry.
god-a-mercy,old heart!
sign me a present pardon for my brother or with an outstretched throat ill tell the world aloud what man thou art.
if you will now unite in your complaints and force them with a constancy,the cardinal cannot stand under them.
i will not have excuse,with saying this,loud music is too harsh for ladies heads since they love men in arms as well as beds.
what,man,tis not for gravity to play at cherry-pit with satan.
whats the matter,man?
midnight,assist our moan;help us to sigh and groan,heavily,heavily:graves,yawn and yield your dead,till death be uttered,heavily,heavily.
my lord,my lord i will not hear you.
rest you fair,good signior,your worship was the last man in our mouths.
love give me strength,and strength shall help afford.
therefore away,and leave her bravely;go.
no,my good lord;therefore be patient.
well leave you for this time.
dost thou use to write thy name?
the word is short,but not so short as sweet;no word like pardon for kings mouths so meet.
tybalt is dead,and romeo banished.
a virtuous maid,the daughter of a count that died some twelvemonth since;then leaving her in the protection of his son,her brother,who shortly also died;for whose dear love they say,she hath abjurd the company and sight of men.
masters,it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves,and it will go near to be thought so shortly.
ay,forsooth;and then you may come and see the picture,she says,that you wot of.
signior gratiano?
the diamond,why twas beautiful and hard,whereto his invisd properties did tend,the deep green emerald,in whose fresh regard weak sights their sickly radiance do amend;the heaven-hued sapphire and the opal blend with objects manifold;each several stone,with wit well blazond smild,or made some moan.
here,take you this.
ill make my heaven in a ladys lap,and deck my body in gay ornaments,and witch sweet ladies with my words and looks.
snout doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
marry,good air.
bring a corollary,rather than want a spirit:appear,and pertly.
one must bear,and that must be you.
lord rivers and lord grey are sent to pomfret,and,with them sir thomas vaughan,prisoners.
i have drunk but one cup tonight,and that was craftily qualified too,and behold,what innovation it makes here:i am unfortunate in the infirmity,and dare not task my weakness with any more.
its dry,sir.
wounded to death.
grumio,biondello.
lets think in private more.
we must die,messala.
waste no time in words,but get thee gone.
theres one yonder arrested and carried to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
two loves i have,of comfort and despair,which,like two spirits,do suggest me still:the better angel is a man right fair,the worser spirit a woman coloured ill.
be as thou wast wont to be;see as thou was wont to see.
i have him already tempering between my finger and my thumb,and shortly will i seal with him.
i am sorry for thee,friend;tis the dukes pleasure,whose disposition,all the world well knows,will not be rubbd nor stoppd;ill entreat for thee.
farewell,young lords;these warlike principles do not throw from you;and you,my lords,farewell;share the advice betwixt you;if both gain all,the gift doth stretch itself as tis receivd,and is enough for both.
how melancholies i am!
wherefore did they not that hour destroy us?
had he been taen,we should have heard the news;had he been slain,we should have heard the news;or had he scaped,methinks we should have heard the happy tidings of his good escape.
monster,your fairy,which you say is a harmless fairy,has done little better than played the jack with us.
and will you credit this base drudges words,that speaks he knows not what?
come,come,thou boy-queller,show thy face;know what it is to meet achilles angry.
being holiday,the beggars shop is shut.
be assurd of this,that the magnifico is much belovd and hath in his effect a voice potential as double as the dukes;he will divorce you,or put upon you what restraint and grievance the law(with all his might to enforce it on)will give him cable.
ay,and twere pity to sunder them that yoke so well together.
i heard you were saucy at my gates;and allowed your approach,rather to wonder at you than to hear you.
then heaven have mercy on me!
we say the king is wise and virtuous,and his noble queen well struck in years,fair,and not jealous.
from you have i been absent in the spring,when proud-pied april(dressed in all his trim)hath put a spirit of youth in every thing:that heavy saturn laughed and leaped with him.
commotions,uproars,with a general taint of the whole state,as of late days our neighbours,the upper germany,can dearly witness,yet freshly pitied in our memories.
our hostess keeps her state;but,in best time,we will require her welcome.
hubert,keep this boy.
were such things here as we do speak about?
yet,pucelle,hold thy peace;if talbot do but thunder,rain will follow.
why that?
here is the head of that ignoble traitor,the dangerous and unsuspected hastings.
my salad days,when i was green in judgment,cold in blood,to say as i said then.
signior hortensio,twixt such friends as we few words suffice;and therefore,if thou know one rich enough to be petruchios wife,as wealth is burden of my wooing dance,be she as foul as was florentius love,as old as sibyl,and as curst and shrewd as socrates xanthippe or a worse,she moves me not,or not removes,at least,affections edge in me,were she as rough as are the swelling adriatic seas:i come to wive it wealthily in padua;if wealthily,then happily in padua.
thou naughty varlet!
i will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,and thus my battle shall be ordered:my foreward shall be drawn out all in length,consisting equally of horse and foot;our archers shall be placed in the midst.
a very tainted fellow,and full of wickedness.
yes,you have seen cassio and she together.
i am bid forth to supper,jessica.
but she is none:she knows the heat of a luxurious bed;her blush is guiltiness,not modesty.
keep thy foot out of brothels,thy hand out of plackets,thy pen from lenders book,and defy the foul fiend.
go with us.
came this from hamlet to her?
most noble empress,you have heard of me?
which fear so grew in me i hither fled,under the covering of a careful night,who seemd my good protector;and,being here,bethought me what was past,what might succeed.
but i know none,and therefore am no beast.
i will be heard.
whos there?
each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,which shows like grief itself,but is not so;for sorrows eye,glazed with blinding tears,divides one thing entire to many objects,like perspectives which,rightly gazed upon,show nothing but confusion;eyed awry,distinguish form.
and now,octavius,listen great things.
he says,my lord,your daughter is not well.
whats the matter?
why,brother rivers,are you yet to learn what late misfortune is befalln king edward?
up and down,up and down,i will lead them up and down.
but i pray you,what is your pleasure with me?
by gar,tis good;vell said.
the rest walk up above.
more by virtue;you are modest,cousin.
sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:burden:ding-dong.
mistress ford,your sorrow hath eaten up my sufferance.
the princess!
hath she made her affection known to benedick?
if it might please you his face was as the heavens,and therein stuck a sun and moon,which kept their course,and lighted the little o,the earth.
welcome all!
because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to go to the ale with a christian.
tis very true.
all good seeming,by thy revolt,o husband,shall be thought put on for villainy;not born wheret grows,but worn a bait for ladies.
to every county where this is questioned send our letters with free pardon to each man that has denied the force of this commission.
no more words.
o god,thy arm was here;and not to us,but to thy arm alone,ascribe we all!
well i could have wrestled the best men called it excellentand run swifter than wind upon a field of corn,curling the wealthy ears,never flew.
tis yours because you liked it.
some more;be sage.
not unlike,sir;that may be.
which the rather we shall be blest to do if he remember a kinder value of the people than he hath hereto prized them at.
i do not see them bleed.
yet once again proclaim it publicly,if any friend will pay the sum for him,he shall not die;so much we tender him.
no joyful tongue gave him his welcome home,but dust was thrown upon his sacred head,which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,his face still combating with tears and smiles,the badges of his grief and patience,that had not god for some strong purpose,steeled the hearts of men,they must perforce have melted,and barbarism itself have pitied him.
you so remain.
and now has he land and beefs.
old montague is come,and flourishes his blade in spite of me.
i will buy nine sparrows for a penny,and his pia mater is not worth the ninth part of a sparrow.
hail,lords!
my father and my uncle and myself did give him that same royalty he wears,and when he was not six-and-twenty strong,sick in the worlds regard,wretched and low,a poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,my father gave him welcome to the shore:and when he heard him swear and vow to god he came but to be duke of lancaster,to sue his livery,and beg his peace with tears of innocence and terms of zeal,my father,in kind heart and pity moved,swore him assistance,and performed it too.
forth of my heart those charms,thine eyes,are blotted;thy bed,lust-staind,shall with lusts blood be spotted.
he gets nothing by that.
and i.
they will then,eret be long.
now these her princes are come home again,come the three corners of the world in arms and we shall shock them.
i am th unhappy subject of these quarrels.
ill bring thee word straight how tis like to go.
our griefs,and not our manners,reason now.
foolhardiness,not i.
fell banning hag,enchantress,hold thy tongue!
but now you partly may perceive my mind.
a maiden never bold:of spirit so still and quiet that her motion blushd at herself;and she,in spite of nature,of years,of country,credit,everything,to fall in love with what she feard to look on!
i am not in the mind but i were better to be married of him than of another,for he is not like to marry me well,and not being well married,it will be a good excuse for me hereafter to leave my wife.
and well he might so do,for well i know he was unnatural.
i am not tall enough to become the function well,nor lean enough to be thought a good student,but to be said,an honest man and a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say,a careful man and a great scholar.
there she appeared indeed,or my reporter devised well for her.
even as an empty eagle,sharp by fast,tires with her beak on feathers,flesh and bone,shaking her wings,devouring all in haste,till either gorge be stuffd or prey be gone:even so she kissd his brow,his cheek,his chin,and where she ends she doth anew begin.
sir,good success!
this woman lockd me out this day from dinner.
so is all her sect;an they be once in a calm,they are sick.
infinite pity that four such eyes should be so fixed on one that two must needs be blind for t.
my heart suspects more than mine eye can see.
who told me,when we both lay in the field frozen almost to death,how he did lap me even in his garments,and did give himself,all thin and naked,to the numb-cold night?
have i hit her now?
dispatch us with all speed,lest that our king come here himself to question our delay;for he is footed in this land already.
we all that are engaged to this loss knew that we ventured on such dangerous seas that if we wrought out life twas ten to one;and yet we ventured,for the gain proposed choked the respect of likely peril feard;and since we are oerset,venture again.
ah,whoreson caterpillars,bacon-fed knaves,they hate us youth.
farewell till then.
but mine honesty shall not make poor my greatness,nor my power work without it.
i guess he is a prince too,and,if it may be,greater;for his show has all the ornament of honour in t:hes somewhat bigger than the knight he spoke of,but of a face far sweeter;his complexion is,as a ripe grape,ruddy.
silence awhile.
the matter?
he shall charge you and discharge you with the motion of a pewterers hammer,come off and on swifter than he that gibbets on the brewers bucket.
i hourly learn a doctrine of obedience,and would gladly look him i th face.
thanks to your highness.
good sir,go with us.
come,sister,i am pressd down with conceit;conceit,my comfort and my injury.
it shall be done.
but he which bore my letter,friar john,was stayd by accident;and yesternight returnd my letter back.
let him not speak.
my ladies both,good day to you.
the law protects not us;then why should we be tender to let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us,play judge and executioner all himself,for we do fear the law?
yet a kind of insinuation,as it were,in via,in way,of explication;facere,as it were,replication,or rather,ostentare,to show,as it were,his inclination,after his undressed,unpolished,uneducated,unpruned,untrained,or rather,unlettered,or ratherest,unconfirmed fashion,to insert again myhaud credofor a deer.
hes grown a very land fish,languageless,a monster.
true swains in love shall in the world to come approve their truth by troilus,when their rhymes,full of protest,of oath,and big compare,want similes,truth tird with iteration as true as steel,as plantage to the moon,as sun to day,as turtle to her mate,as iron to adamant,as earth to th centre yet,after all comparisons of truth,as truths authentic author to be cited,as true as troilus shall crown up the verse and sanctify the numbers.
my widow says thus she conceives her tale.
i the night?
and yet to be afeard of my deserving were but a weak disabling of myself.
i will not hence and leave my husband here;and ill it doth beseem your holiness to separate the husband and the wife.
for you know,nuncle,the hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long that its had it head bit off by it young.
good,good.
to bring you thus together tis no sin,sith that the justice of your title to him doth flourish the deceit.
from the barge a strange invisible perfume hits the sense of the adjacent wharfs.
wast i!
whereupon methinks i see him noway,so thou dost,italian fiend!
first,his integrity stands without blemish;next,it imports no reason that with such vehemency he should pursue faults proper to himself.
not one word more.
she shall not need;well meet her in the field.
o,are you free?
fall to thy prayers.
confess the truth,and say by whose advice thou camst here to complain.
masters,you are all welcome.
he hath studied her will and translated her willout of honesty into english.
good boatswain,have care.
away,away!
the early village cock hath twice done salutation to the morn;your friends are up and buckle on their armour.
let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong,and tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
doth anyone accuse york for a traitor?
no;the world must be peopled.
do you not hope your children shall be kings,when those that gave the thane of cawdor to me promisd no less to them?
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
come,officer,as loud as eer thou canst,cry.
as who would say,in rome no justice were.
o,my good lord,yonders foul murders done!
what is it that they do when they change us for others?
come,bring me to some private place:come,come.
what,what,what!
faith no,as you may season it in the charge.
he was a man of good carriage,great carriage,for he carried the town gates on his back like a porter,and he was in love.
their peace is made with heads,and not with hands.
change it,change it.
ay,good fool.
death is certain.
till our deaths it cannot;
master page,good master page,sit.
let them guard the door.
or else a rude despiser of good manners,that in civility thou seemst so empty?
where are these hearts?
the town is taen.
good een,our neighbours.
nor i,my lord,in faith.
this is a devil,and no monster:i will leave him;i have no long spoon.
with lysander?
before angiers well met,brave austria.
nay,more,the kings council are no good workmen.
tis ten to one this play can never please all that are here.
item,she hath more hair than wit,and more faults than hairs,and more wealth than faults.
to the kings party theres no going.
no might nor greatness in mortality can censure scape.
as true as i believe you think them false that give you cause to prove my saying true.
then warwick disannuls great john of gaunt,which did subdue the greatest part of spain;and after john of gaunt,henry the fourth,whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest;and after that wise prince,henry the fifth,who by his prowess conquered all france.
a fortnight and odd days.
it hath not appeared.
ere we were two days old at sea,a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us chase.
o,quoth lucretius,i did give that life which she too early and too late hath spilled.
shes the worse for all this.
hence from verona art thou banished.
up to the eastern tower,whose height commands as subject all the vale,to see the battle.
was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this multitude?
that time?
thou cold-blooded slave,hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side?
ere the bat hath flown his cloisterd flight,ere to black hecates summons the shard-born beetle,with his drowsy hums,hath rung nights yawning peal,there shall be done a deed of dreadful note.
why,there was a crown offerd him;and being offerd him,he put it by with the back of his hand,thus;and then the people fell a-shouting.
tell him the daughter of the king of france,on serious business craving quick dispatch,importunes personal conference with his grace.
therefore,if you hold your life at any price,betake you to your guard,for your opposite hath in him what youth,strength,skill,and wrath,can furnish man withal.
in his face the livery of the warlike maid appears,pure red and white,for yet no beard has blessed him;and in his rolling eyes sits victory,as if she ever meant to crown his valour.
hes worth no more.
tis her breathing that perfumes the chamber thus.
humbly on my knee i crave your blessing.
you bless me,gods!
who,without those means thou talkst of,didst thou ever know beloved?
but i beseech you,what says the other troop?
give the word.
not having that which,having,makes them short.
why,how now!
but all these poor forbiddings could not stay him;he in the worst sense construes their denial.
he is afraid of me,and i of him.
palamon is but his foil;to him a mere dull shadow;hes swart and meagre,of an eye as heavy as if he had lost his mother;a still temper,no stirring in him,no alacrity;of all this sprightly sharpness,not a smile.
put me a caliver into warts hand,bardolph.
and as he saith,so say we all with him.
but,since your kindness we have stretchd thus far,let us beseech you that for our gold we may provision have,wherein we are not destitute for want,but weary for the staleness.
thy son is banished upon good advice,whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave.
i know you are the muskos regiment,and i shall lose my life for want of language.
my master is awaked by great occasion to call upon his own and humbly prays you that with your other noble parts youll suit in giving him his right.
it is no other.
my honoured lord!
i beseech you read it.
tomorrow is the joyful day,audrey,tomorrow will we be married.
well,my lord,if you may please to think i love the king,and,through him,whats nearest to him,which is your gracious self,embrace but my direction,if your more ponderous and settled project may suffer alteration.
you have work for me,theres payment,hence!
him,i,as my ever-esteemed duty pricks me on,have sent to thee,to receive the meed of punishment,by thy sweet graces officer,antony dull,a man of good repute,carriage,bearing,and estimation.
well show thee io as she was a maid and how she was beguiled and surprisd,as lively painted as the deed was done.
what form?
but how,but how?
i faint almost to death.
ring,bells,aloud;burn,bonfires,clear and bright,to entertain great englands lawful king.
what offence,sweet beatrice?
these are the whole contents,and,good my lord,by that you love the dearest in this world,as you wish christian peace to souls departed,stand these poor peoples friend,and urge the king to do me this last right.
gives your hand.
where is your sister,and hortensios wife?
poor rogues,i pray you say.
go thou to sanctuary,and good thoughts possess thee.
yon ribaudred nag of egypt,whom leprosy oertake,i th midst o th fight,when vantage like a pair of twins appeared,both as the sameor,rather,ours the elder the breeze upon her,like a cow in june,hoists sails and flies.
no cause?
hes a villain,then.
madness in great ones must not unwatchd go.
dear lord,you are full of fair words.
not mad,but mated;how,i do not know.
this proffer is absurd and reasonless.
brothers,you muse what chat we two have had.
o villain,that set this down among her vices!
o,sir rude,in sooth;in good sooth,very rude.
then fall,caesar!
it is some poor fragment,some slender ort of his remainder.
poor servant,thou hast lost.
i cannot justify whom the law condemns.
do but read.
and i prithee,sweet wag,when thou art king,as god save thy gracemajesty i should say,for grace thou wilt have none what,none?
the end crowns all;and that old common arbitrator,time,will one day end it.
how found you him?
the emperor calls canidius.
the lady is dead upon mine and my masters false accusation;and,briefly,i desire nothing but the reward of a villain.
faith,een with losing his wits.
being thus crammed in the basket,a couple of fords knaves,his hinds,were called forth by their mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to datchet lane.
base cousin,darst thou break first?
here lie i,timon,who alive all living men did hate.
o perjurd woman,thou dost stone my heart,and makst me call what i intend to do a murder,which i thought a sacrifice.
what hast thou found?
will you sit?
good clarence,do;sweet clarence,do thou do it.
but i have heard him oft maintain it to be fit that,sons at perfect age,and fathers declined,the father should be as ward to the son,and the son manage his revenue.
go sleep,and hear us.
where is the provost?
a special virtue,for then she need not be washed and scoured.
saw you anything?
fare you well.
yes,bring me word,boy,if thy lord look well,for he went sickly forth:and take good note what caesar doth,what suitors press to him.
ill signify so much unto him straight.
why workst thou mischief in thy pilgrimage,unless thou couldst return to make amends?
be gone,you rogue!
these lies are like the father that begets them,gross as a mountain,open,palpable.
this is the letter to your ladyship.
theres no remedy,unless,by not so doing,our good city cleave in the midst and perish.
no,friend,cannot you beg?
sweet sir,much better than i was.
dost thou speak seriously,servilius?
what,will you make a younker of me?
three times they breathed,and three times did they drink,upon agreement,of swift severns flood,who then,affrighted with their bloody looks,ran fearfully among the trembling reeds,and hid his crisp head in the hollow bank blood-stained with these valiant combatants.
court,soldier in the same.
we english warriors wot not what it means.
but if you have a stomach,tot a gods name;you shall have me assisting you in all.
some dear cause will in concealment wrap me up awhile;when i am known aright,you shall not grieve lending me this acquaintance.
it is more than for some,my lord;it is for all,all i have.
what was my first?
i know it,uncle,and oppose not myself against their will.
i am sorry now that i did draw on him.
the knights are come.
the english camp.
ay,by heaven,my lord.
wait close,i will not see him.
thou mayst be valiant in a better cause,but now thou seemst a coward.
if of life you keep a care,shake off slumber,and beware.
stay,countrymen.
my brother gloucester,plain well-meaning soul,whom fair befall in heaven mongst happy souls!
this,or else nothing,will inherit her.
come,hippolyta.
tis strange.
why,all the boys in venice follow him,crying,his stones,his daughter,and his ducats.
we are the queens abjects and must obey.
we had a kind of light what would ensue.
here come two noble beasts in,a man and a lion.
a masque.
i met a fool i th forest,a motley fool.
no,escanes,know this of me,antiochus from incest lived not free:for which the most high gods not minding longer to withhold the vengeance that they had in store due to this heinous capital offence,even in the height and pride of all his glory,when he was seated in a chariot of an inestimable value,and his daughter with him,a fire from heaven came and shrivelld up their bodies,even to loathing,for they so stunk,that all those eyes adored them ere their fall scorn now their hand should give them burial.
what,no more?
the fellow has good judgment.
i am sorry for my cousin.
i learn you take things ill which are not so,or being,concern you not.
most bloody.
here none but soldiers and romes servitors repose in fame;none basely slain in brawls.
well,i kiss her.
ford hum!
my haste is very great.
i have left you commands.
how sometimes nature will betray its folly,its tenderness,and make itself a pastime to harder bosoms!
they say they have letters for you.
now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy,and i,a gasping new-delivered mother,have woe to woe,sorrow to sorrow joined.
i see no more in you than in the ordinary of natures sale-work.
thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,as i by thine a wife:this is a match,and made between s by vows.
through tatterd clothes great vices do appear;robes and furrd gowns hide all.
no,no,good friends,god wot.
my lord,so please you,these things further thought on,to think me as well a sister,as a wife,one day shall crown th alliance ont,so please you,here at my house,and at my proper cost.
we thank you,maiden,but may not be so credulous of cure,when our most learned doctors leave us,and the congregated college have concluded that labouring art can never ransom nature from her inaidable estate.
think you my uncle did dissemble,grandam?
now,sir,how do you find the prisoner?
ill meet you in the valleys.
such is his noble purpose,and,believet,the duke will lay upon him all the honour that good convenience claims.
welcome hither:i have begun to plant thee,and will labour to make thee full of growing.
time,force,and death,do to this body what extremes you can,but the strong base and building of my love is as the very centre of the earth,drawing all things to it.
know,my loving lord,the marquess dorset,as i hear,is fled to richmond,in the parts where he abides.
scale of dragon,tooth of wolf,witchs mummy,maw and gulf of the ravind salt-sea shark,root of hemlock diggd i th dark,liver of blaspheming jew,gall of goat,and slips of yew sliverd in the moons eclipse,nose of turk,and tartars lips,finger of birth-strangled babe ditch-deliverd by a drab,make the gruel thick and slab:add thereto a tigers chaudron,for th ingredients of our cauldron.
so brutus should be found.
neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
to me she speaks;she moves me for her theme.
doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly?
is t come to that?
if,tullus,not yet thou knowst me,and,seeing me,dost not think me for the man i am,necessity commands me name myself.
what will ye do?
i am not yet of percys mind,the hotspur of the north,he that kills me some six or seven dozen of scots at a breakfast,washes his hands,and says to his wife,fie upon this quiet life!
i think it is.
one that is well-nigh worn to pieces with age,to show himself a young gallant!
he hath commission from thy wife and me to hang cordelia in the prison,and to lay the blame upon her own despair,that she fordid herself.
they that have the voice of lions and the act of hares,are they not monsters?
please you,my lord,that honourable gentleman,lord lucullus,entreats your company tomorrow to hunt with him and has sent your honour two brace of greyhounds.
for the short and the long is,our play is preferred.
let our wives yet once again,to make us public sport,appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow,where we may take him and disgrace him for it.
and,by my holidame,the pretty wretch left crying,and said ay.
only,my friend,i yet am unprovided of a pair of bases.
tis done.
but for my tears,the moist impediments unto my speech,i had forestalld this dear and deep rebuke ere you with grief had spoke and i had heard the course of it so far.
i could not stir him.
who is he comes here?
tis but his humour.
others there are who,trimmd in forms,and visages of duty,keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,and throwing but shows of service on their lords,do well thrive by them,and when they have lind their coats,do themselves homage.
come hither,gentlemen,and lay your hands again upon my sword.
you have prevaild.
tomorrow or next day they will be here.
why not on proteus,as of all the rest?
ha,ha!
let ghastly shadows his lewd eyes affright,and the dire thought of his committed evil shape every bush a hideous shapeless devil.
still better,and worse.
alas,good gentleman!
here it is,i think.
what clarence but a quicksand of deceit?
once more the engine of her thoughts began:o fairest mover on this mortal round,would thou wert as i am,and i a man,my heart all whole as thine,thy heart my wound,for one sweet look thy help i would assure thee,though nothing but my bodys bane would cure thee.
it were good that benedick knew of it by some other,if she will not discover it.
my name is proculeius.
in sight of god and us,your guilt is great;receive the sentence of the law for sins such as by gods book are adjudged to death.
it blows a man up like a bladder.
then for the truth and plainness of the case,i pluck this pale and maiden blossom here,giving my verdict on the white rose side.
prithee,say on:the setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim a matter from thee,and a birth,indeed which throes thee much to yield.
what is the sum he owes?
that at her hands,which the kings king forbids.
thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,that knewst the very bottom of my soul,that almost mightst have coind me into gold,wouldst thou have practisd on me for thy use,may it be possible that foreign hire could out of thee extract one spark of evil that might annoy my finger?
i see a mans life is a tedious one.
most rude melancholy,valour gives thee place.
thy wife is proud;she holdeth thee in awe more than god or religious churchmen may.
fie,fie upon her!
well,sit you out.
what know i how the world may deem of me?
alas the day,good heart,that was not her fault.
o,marry me to one frances!
lie with her!
the thrush and the jay,are summer songs for me and my aunts,while we lie tumbling in the hay.
why did you leave me here alone,my lords?
hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me?
truly,gentlemen,a bloody tyrant and a homicide;one raised in blood,and one in blood established;one that made means to come by what he hath,and slaughtered those that were the means to help him;a base foul stone,made precious by the foil of englands chair,where he is falsely set;one that hath ever been gods enemy.
ill save you that labour,sir.
i hope i have.
if the true concord of well-tuned sounds,by unions married do offend thine ear,they do but sweetly chide thee,who confounds in singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear:mark how one string sweet husband to another,strikes each in each by mutual ordering;resembling sire,and child,and happy mother,who all in one,one pleasing note do sing:whose speechless song being many,seeming one,sings this to thee,thou single wilt prove none.
one time will owe another.
mistrust it not;for sure,acides was ajax,calld so from his grandfather.
i pray you all,tell me what they deserve that do conspire my death with devilish plots of damned witchcraft,and that have prevailed upon my body with their hellish charms?
towards him i made,but he was ware of me,and stole into the covert of the wood.
bless you,my fortunate lady!
i tell you for good will.
my lord,i must confess i know this woman;and five years since there was some speech of marriage betwixt myself and her;which was broke off,partly for that her promised proportions came short of composition;but in chief for that her reputation was disvalued in levity.
flourish of cornets.
faith,some certain dregs of conscience are yet within me.
heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
a knave very voluble;no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane seeming,for the better compassing of his salt and most hidden loose affection?
who should i swear by?
finely put on indeed!
o teach me how i should forget to think.
he likewise enriched poor straggling soldiers with great quantity.
fulvia is dead.
dismayd not this our captains,macbeth and banquo?
why shakest thou so?
despiteful and intolerable wrongs!
then blend your spirits with mine,you whose free nobleness do make my cause your personal hazard.
so shall you feel the loss,but not the friend which you weep for.
besides,you know,it draws something near to the speech we had to such a purpose.
ill in to counsel them;haply my presence may well abate the over-merry spleen,which otherwise would grow into extremes.
encounters mounted are against your peace.
no new device to beat this from his brains?
or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
how the fat rogue roared!
still as the grave.
o sweet paulina,make me to think so twenty years together!
what woman in the city do i name when that i say the city-woman bears the cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
grandsire,tis ovidsmetamorphosis.
whats your gracious pleasure?
i forgot to ask him one thing;ill remembert anon.
look,hector,how the sun begins to set,how ugly night comes breathing at his heels;even with the vail and darkning of the sun,to close the day up,hectors life is done.
so white,and such a traitor!
is it sport?
pink for flower.
i do owe them still my life and services.
who finds the partridge in the puttocks nest but may imagine how the bird was dead,although the kite soar with unbloodied beak?
belike his wife,acquainted with his fits,on purpose shut the doors against his way.
th offence is holy that she hath committed,and this deceit loses the name of craft,of disobedience,or unduteous title,since therein she doth evitate and shun a thousand irreligious cursed hours,which forced marriage would have brought upon her.
i could put thee in comfort:not by two that i know.
why,cousin,why,rosalind!
in the divorce his contrary proceedings are all unfolded,wherein he appears as i would wish mine enemy.
and in this state she gallops night by night through lovers brains,and then they dream of love;oer courtiers knees,that dream on curtsies straight;oer lawyers fingers,who straight dream on fees;oer ladies lips,who straight on kisses dream,which oft the angry mab with blisters plagues,because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:sometime she gallops oer a courtiers nose,and then dreams he of smelling out a suit;and sometime comes she with a tithe-pigs tail,tickling a parsons nose as a lies asleep,then dreams he of another benefice:sometime she driveth oer a soldiers neck,and then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,of breaches,ambuscados,spanish blades,of healths five fathom deep;and then anon drums in his ear,at which he starts and wakes;and,being thus frighted,swears a prayer or two,and sleeps again.
since the youth will not be entreated,his own peril on his forwardness.
belike she minds to play the amazon.
are his files as full as thy report?
i have an oath in heaven.
as i was banished,i was banished hereford;but as i come,i come for lancaster.
no,sir,nor i mean it not.
i tell you,denied,my lord.
the old cock.
then thou,fair sun,which on my earth dost shine,exhalst this vapour-vow;in thee it is.
they would have me as familiar with mens pockets as their gloves or their handkerchers;which makes much against my manhood,if i should take from anothers pocket to put into mine;for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs.
look to the boy.
remember whom you are to cope withal,a sort of vagabonds,rascals,and runaways,a scum of bretons and base lackey peasants,whom their oer-cloyed country vomits forth to desperate adventures and assured destruction.
if you can look into the seeds of time,and say which grain will grow,and which will not,speak then to me,who neither beg nor fear your favours nor your hate.
o damnd iago!
most shallow man!
to satisfy,if of my freedom tis the main part,take no stricter render of me than my all.
brother,though i be youngest,give me leave.
whats your will,sir?
your statue spouting blood in many pipes,in which so many smiling romans bathd,signifies that from you great rome shall suck reviving blood,and that great men shall press for tinctures,stains,relics,and cognizance.
no,sir,not well:tis too true,she is mad.
it was wise natures end in the donation,to be his evidence now.
think,my lord?
what,was i born to this,that my sad look should grace the triumph of great bolingbroke?
now be you blest for it!
didst note it?
yes,good faith,every dram of it;and i will not bate thee a scruple.
that columbine.
brief,he must hence depart to tyre:his queen with child makes her desire which who shall cross?
serve god,love me,and mend.
my father,in his habit as he livd!
come,father,ill bestow you with a friend.
not for myself,lord warwick,but my son,whom i unnaturally shall disinherit.
signior baptista,shall i lead the way?
if i can close with him,i care not for his thrust.
never came any from mine that might offend your majesty.
what,curio?
come,heres the map,shall we divide our right according to our threefold order taen?
now spurs the lated traveller apace,to gain the timely inn;and near approaches the subject of our watch.
thou rascal beadle,hold thy bloody hand!
it seemd she was a queen over her passion;who,most rebel-like,sought to be king oer her.
those prisoners in your highness name demanded,which harry percy here at holmedon took,were,as he says,not with such strength denied as is deliverd to your majesty.
fie,brother,fie!
all will be naught else.
hes the devil.
go,sirrah,take them to the buttery,and give them friendly welcome everyone:let them want nothing that my house affords.
tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag.
the king enters with his power.
why,what care i?
o that record could with a backward look,even of five hundred courses of the sun,show me your image in some antique book,since mind at first in character was done.
my queen!
what muffled fellows that?
sent by the king your father to greet him and to give him comforts.
what art thou?
sirrah,get thee to plashy,to my sister gloucester;bid her send me presently a thousand pound.
i will,my lord.
his humour is lofty,his discourse peremptory,his tongue filed,his eye ambitious,his gait majestical and his general behaviour vain,ridiculous,and thrasonical.
heres one to a very doleful tune.
even so it was with me when i was young;if ever we are natures,these are ours;this thorn doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;our blood to us,this to our blood is born;it is the show and seal of natures truth,where loves strong passion is impressd in youth.
thou speakest wonders.
pray you,if you know,where in the purlieus of this forest stands a sheepcote fenced about with olive trees?
not since widow didos time.
speak,brave hector;we are much delighted.
i am shent for speaking to you.
of this discourse we more will hear anon.
one word more.
tis a match.
as i stood here below,methought his eyes were two full moons;he had a thousand noses,horns whelkd and waved like the enraged sea.
aside,aside,here comes lord timon.
what would my lord,but that he may not have,wherein olivia may seem serviceable?
ill re you,ill fa you.
cominius,no.
think on my words.
you are welcome notwithstanding.
why,petruchio is coming,in a new hat and an old jerkin;a pair of old breeches thrice turned;a pair of boots that have been candle-cases,one buckled,another laced;an old rusty sword taen out of the town armoury,with a broken hilt,and chapeless;with two broken points:his horse hipped with an old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred;besides,possessed with the glanders and like to mose in the chine;troubled with the lampass,infected with the fashions,full of windgalls,sped with spavins,rayed with the yellows,past cure of the fives,stark spoiled with the staggers,begnawn with the bots,swayed in the back and shoulder-shotten;near-legged before,and with a half-checked bit,and a head-stall of sheeps leather,which,being restrained to keep him from stumbling,hath been often burst,and now repaired with knots;one girth six times pieced,and a womans crupper of velure,which hath two letters for her name fairly set down in studs,and here and there pieced with pack-thread.
thus,pretty lady,i am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
yes,that you did,sir,and forswore it too.
i could wish my best friend at such a feast.
o,break,my heart.
leave thy peeping,mock with thy tickling beams eyes that are sleeping.
i will prevent this,detect my wife,be revenged on falstaff,and laugh at page.
was not this mockery?
here do you keep a hundred knights and squires;men so disorderd,so deboshd and bold that this our court,infected with their manners,shows like a riotous inn.
pray thee get thee in.
these lovers cry,o ho,they die!
lets get her in.
so much for praising myself,who,i myself will bear witness,is praiseworthy.
bardolph,am i not fallen away vilely since this last action?
thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind,that never dreamst on aught but butcheries.
we hear not of him,neither need we fear him.
well,believe this:no ceremony that to great ones longs,not the kings crown,nor the deputed sword,the marshals truncheon,nor the judges robe,become them with one half so good a grace as mercy does.
my lord,cheer up your spirits;our foes are nigh,and this soft courage makes your followers faint.
he turned me about with his finger and his thumb as one would set up a top.
urge not my fathers anger,eglamour,but think upon my grief,a ladys grief,and on the justice of my flying hence to keep me from a most unholy match,which heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues.
what,you come for money?
our guider,come.
spur post,and get before him to the king,and beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
alls not well.
what is the course and drift of your compact?
how old is she?
and never yet did insurrection want such water-colours to impaint his cause,nor moody beggars starving for a time of pellmell havoc and confusion.
where have you been gadding?
i have seen thee fight when i have envied thy behaviour.
look you speak justly.
he privily deals with our cardinal,and,as i trow which i do well,for i am sure the emperor paid ere he promised,whereby his suit was granted ere it was asked.
by yea and nay,sir,then i swore in jest.
say what?
this is his wife;that rings a thousand proofs.
well,tis done.
whose was it?
look when he fawns,he bites;and when he bites,his venom tooth will rankle to the death.
well;then i shall see thee again?
then,childish fear,avaunt!
thou whoreson little tidy bartholomew boar-pig,when wilt thou leave fighting a-days and foining a-nights,and begin to patch up thine old body for heaven?
bless me,what a fry of fornication is at door!
my daughter and my wife with clamours filled the dispersed air,who,holding lucrece life,answered their cries,my daughter and my wife.
alas,master,i know not.
i see them lay their heads together to surprise me.
let the foils be brought,the gentleman willing,and the king hold his purpose,i will win for him if i can;if not,i will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
but tell me,where is princely richmond now?
our flesh and blood,my lord,is grown so vile that it doth hate what gets it.
o blessed heavens!
tell not me.
by jove,i wonder,that is king of thoughts,these cates resist me,he but thought upon.
this is the pit,and this the elder-tree.
step aside,and ill show thee a precedent.
so,if the issue of the elder son succeed before the younger,i am king.
you are a villain,i jest not:i will make it good how you dare,with what you dare,and when you dare.
what,ho!
let me twine mine arms about that body,whereagainst my grained ash an hundred times hath broke and scarred the moon with splinters.
women are made to bear,and so are you.
pardon me,good father;it is against my oath.
o for a horse with wings!
go,live still,be alcibiades your plague,you his,and last so long enough.
as you like this,give me the lie another time.
a goodly day not to keep house with such whose roofs as low as ours!
come up to me;quit me of these cold gyves,give me a sword though it be rusty,and the charity of one meal lend me.
he was excellent indeed,madam;the king very lately spoke of him admiringly,and mourningly;he was skilful enough to have livd still,if knowledge could be set up against mortality.
long mayst thou live in richards seat to sit,and soon lie richard in an earthly pit!
even with the speediest expedition i will dispatch him to the emperors court.
wilt come?
either you are ignorant,or seem so,crafty;and thats not good.
the night has been unruly:where we lay,our chimneys were blown down and,as they say,lamentings heard i th air,strange screams of death,and prophesying,with accents terrible,of dire combustion and confusd events,new hatchd to the woeful time.
no,you are deceived.
this do thou for my love;and so let him,as he regards his aged fathers life.
blessing upon your vows,and in your bed find fairer fortune,if you ever wed!
nature now shall make and act the story,the belief both sealed with eye and ear.
what am i that thou shouldst contemn me this?
i am bound to your niece,sir,i mean,she is the list of my voyage.
well,sir,there rest in your foolery.
my good lords both,with all the heed i can.
re-enter don pedro.
no more,no more.
i never got him.
if this thou do deny,let our hands part,neither entitled in the others heart.
o,let me view his visage,being dead,that living wrought me such exceeding trouble.
behold,my lords,although the print be little,the whole matter and copy of the father:eye,nose,lip,the trick of s frown,his forehead;nay,the valley,the pretty dimples of his chin and cheek;his smiles;the very mould and frame of hand,nail,finger:and thou,good goddess nature,which hast made it so like to him that got it,if thou hast the ordering of the mind too,mongst all colours no yellow in t,lest she suspect,as he does,her children not her husbands!
tis set down so in heaven,but not in earth.
let the drum strike,and prove my title thine.
yet his means are in supposition:he hath an argosy bound to tripolis,another to the indies.
thy grief their sports,thy resolution mocked;that woe is me to think upon thy woes,more than remembrance of my fathers death.
myself have to mine own turnd enemy:this ensign here of mine was turning back;i slew the coward,and did take it from him.
this night he makes a supper,and a great one,to many lords and ladies.
no matter for the dish,sir.
welcome,jack.
i cannot tell.
his demand springs not from edwards well-meant honest love,but from deceit,bred by necessity;for how can tyrants safely govern home unless abroad they purchase great alliance?
my maid nerissa and myself meantime,will live as maids and widows.
henceforth,do what thou wilt.
stir not.
but,mistress,know yourself;down on your knees,and thank heaven,fasting,for a good mans love.
you will not then?
nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
now is mortimer lord of this city.
no trumpet answers.
lie where the light foam of the sea may beat thy gravestone daily.
tis ready,sir,here in the porch.
come,somerset,well see thee sent away.
go,counsellor.
here come our brothers.
it is an honour that i dream not of.
do you like this haste?
why,are your beggars whipped,then?
a slipper and subtle knave,a finder out of occasions;that has an eye can stamp and counterfeit advantages,though true advantage never present itself:a devilish knave!
so ho!
the sheep for fodder follow the shepherd;the shepherd for food follows not the sheep.
though there the people had more absolute power,i say they nourished disobedience,fed the ruin of the state.
o my dread lord,i should be guiltier than my guiltiness to think i can be undiscernible,when i perceive your grace,like power divine,hath looked upon my passes.
in kent,my liege,the guilfords are in arms,and every hour more competitors flock to the rebels,and their power grows strong.
you tailors-yard,you sheath,you bow-case,you vile standing tuck well,breathe awhile,and then to it again,and when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons,hear me speak but this.
and loving woo?
and is old double dead?
very well,and could be content to give him good report fort,but that he pays himself with being proud.
by means whereof the towns each day revolted.
nay,good my lord.
a thousand thousand!
not so,but as we change our courtesies.
shames a baby.
my lord,your nobles,jealous of your absence,seek through your camp to find you.
an inviting eye,and yet methinks right modest.
the head of a bodkin.
yes,there is remedy enough,my lord:consent,and for thy honour give consent,thy daughter shall be wedded to my king,whom i with pain have wood and won thereto;and this her easy-held imprisonment hath gaind thy daughter princely liberty.
royal lear,whom i have ever honourd as my king,lovd as my father,as my master followd,as my great patron thought on in my prayers.
fare you well.
about it,for it stands me much upon to stop all hopes whose growth may damage me.
a god on earth thou art.
a pretty plot,well chosen to build upon!
heaven restore thee!
i have told thee often,and i retell thee again and again,i hate the moor.
trumpet sounds.
the rest that love me,rise and follow me.
let me hear agrippa further speak.
a hundred,if theyll do you any good.
but to read his right wits is to read thus;therefore perpend,my princess,and give ear.
what is my name?
to england will i steal,and there ill steal;and patches will i get unto these cudgelld scars,and swear i got them in the gallia wars.
how much salt water thrown away in waste,to season love,that of it doth not taste.
therefore give me no counsel:my griefs cry louder than advertisement.
sir,i will be as good as my word.
yea,and twere a thousand pound more than tis;for i hear as good exclamation on your worship,as of any man in the city,and though i be but a poor man,i am glad to hear it.
but is there no sequel at the heels of this mothers admiration?
a maid,if she have any honour,would be loath to take example by her.
what wound did ever heal but by degrees?
in s face appears all the fair hopes of what he undertakes and when hes angry,then a settled valour,not tainted with extremes,runs through his body and guides his arm to brave things.
you have in manner with your sinful hours made a divorce betwixt his queen and him,broke the possession of a royal bed,and stained the beauty of a fair queens cheeks with tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs.
false-boding woman,end thy frantic curse,lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
ill see what i can do.
so will you say when you have seen the sequel.
this,my lord.
you speak of him when he was less furnishd than now he is with that which makes him both without and within.
what subtle hole is this,whose mouth is covered with rude-growing briers,upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood as fresh as morning dew distilled on flowers?
i know you not,young gentleman,but i pray you tell me,is my boy,god rest his soul,alive or dead?
for my private part,i am no more touchd than all priams sons;and jove forbid there should be done amongst us such things as might offend the weakest spleen to fight for and maintain.
let us withdraw together,and we may soon our satisfaction have touching that point.
if it assume my noble fathers person,ill speak to it,though hell itself should gape and bid me hold my peace.
this brat is none of mine;it is the issue of polixenes.
not half so bad as thine to englands king,injurious duke,that threatest wheres no cause.
look,my lord,it comes!
have at thee,hector!
ay,and good next day too.
speak pardon as tis current in our land;the chopping french we do not understand.
my tears begin to take his part so much they mar my counterfeiting.
much more,in this great work,which is almost to pluck a kingdom down and set another up,should we survey the plot of situation and the model,consent upon a sure foundation,question surveyors,know our own estate,how able such a work to undergo,to weigh against his opposite;or else we fortify in paper and in figures,using the names of men instead of men,like one that draws the model of a house beyond his power to build it,who,half through,gives oer and leaves his part-created cost a naked subject to the weeping clouds and waste for churlish winters tyranny.
theres none else by.
by the bare scalp of robin hoods fat friar,this fellow were a king for our wild faction.
o slaves,i can tell you news,news,you rascals!
upon thy cheek lay i this zealous kiss,as seal to this indenture of my love:that to my home i will no more return,till angiers and the right thou hast in france,together with that pale,that white-facd shore,whose foot spurns back the oceans roaring tides and coops from other lands her islanders,even till that england,hedgd in with the main,that water-walled bulwark,still secure and confident from foreign purposes,even till that utmost corner of the west salute thee for her king;till then,fair boy,will i not think of home,but follow arms.
the marchioness of pembroke!
what sayest thou to a hare,or the melancholy of moor-ditch?
as many coxcombs as you threw caps up will he tumble down and pay you for your voices.
they call themselves saltiers,and they have dance which the wenches say is a gallimaufry of gambols,because they are not in t;but they themselves are o the mind(if it be not too rough for some that know little but bowling)it will please plentifully.
thats nothing.
you love her,then?
why bastard?
but this good comfort bring i to your highness:the breton navy is dispersed by tempest.
no such matter,sir.
ay,in the catalogue ye go for men;as hounds,and greyhounds,mongrels,spaniels,curs,shoughs,water-rugs,and demi-wolves are clept all by the name of dogs:the valud file distinguishes the swift,the slow,the subtle,the housekeeper,the hunter,every one according to the gift which bounteous nature hath in him closd;whereby he does receive particular addition,from the bill that writes them all alike:and so of men.
o lord,sir,ill be sworn upon all the books in england,i could find in my heartfrancis!
o you gods,what a number of men eats timon,and he sees em not!
danish march.
to be fantastic may become a youth of greater time than i shall show to be.
marry,my lord,lest by a multitude the new-healed wound of malice should break out,which would be so much the more dangerous by how much the estate is green and yet ungoverned.
fight i will no more,but yield me to the veriest hind that shall once touch my shoulder.
grace me no grace,nor uncle me no uncle.
this concurs directly with the letter:she sends him on purpose,that i may appear stubborn to him;for she incites me to that in the letter.
speak,or die.
should we be taking leave as long a term as yet we have to live,the loathness to depart would grow.
marry,if thou wert an honest man,thyself and the money too.
you fillip me o thhead.
what is honour?
our haste from hence is of so quick condition that it prefers itself,and leaves unquestioned matters of needful value.
agamemnon is a fool;achilles is a fool;thersites is a fool;and,as aforesaid,patroclus is a fool.
no;nor it is not meet he should.
therefore it charges me in manners the rather to express myself.
how in our voiding lobby hast thou stood and duly waited for my coming forth?
of this allow,if ever you have spent time worse ere now;if never,yet that time himself doth say he wishes earnestly you never may.
he must before the deputy,sir;he has given him warning.
so as thou livst in peace,die free from strife;for though mine enemy thou hast ever been,high sparks of honour in thee have i seen.
o love,be moderate;allay thy ecstasy,in measure rain thy joy;scant this excess!
thus,then,in brief;the valiant paris seeks you for his love.
oft expectation fails,and most oft there where most it promises;and oft it hits where hope is coldest,and despair most fits.
o spirit of love,how quick and fresh art thou,that notwithstanding thy capacity receiveth as the sea,nought enters there,of what validity and pitch soever,but falls into abatement and low price even in a minute!
i am commanded here,and kept a coil with,too young,and the next year and tis too early.
alas the day,i never gave him cause!
good shepherd,tell this youth what tis to love.
to whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
behold,where stands th usurpers cursed head:the time is free.
gremio,tranio.
face to face and frowning brow to brow,ourselves will hear the accuser and the accused freely speak.
i do beseech thy greatness,give him blows,and take his bottle from him:when thats gone he shall drink nought but brine;for ill not show him where the quick freshes are.
then his good report should have been my son;i therein would have found issue.
o god,that seest it,do not suffer it!
well slip you for a season;but our jealousy does yet depend.
look you now what follows.
it is ycleped thy park.
fare ye well.
i cannot get a service,no!
how much unlike art thou to portia!
good master,be content.
for my part,if a lie may do thee grace,ill gild it with the happiest terms i have.
fairies,be gone,and be all ways away.
and so i thank you for your good counsel.
sleep rock thy brain,and never come mischance between us twain.
we being strangers here,how darst thou trust so great a charge from thine own custody?
come by and by to my chamber.
this letter,madam,craves a speedy answer;tis from your sister.
true valour still a true respect should have.
for grief that they are past recovery;for,were there hope to conquer them again,my sword should shed hot blood,mine eyes no tears.
thou dost advise me even so as i mine own course have set down:ill give no blemish to her honour,none.
but,kate,dost thou understand thus much english:canst thou love me?
write to him i will subscribegentle adieus and greetings.
come,let them be opinioned.
be where you list,your charter is so strong,that you yourself may privilage your time to what you will,to you it doth belong,yourself to pardon of self-doing crime.
now,shame upon you,wheer she does or no!
you look on me:what wreck discern you in me deserves your pity?
with old menenius,and those senators that always favoured him.
sound retreat.
i was seven of the nine days out of the wonder before you came;for look here what i found on a palm-tree.
o posthumus!
now near enough.
soft,by and by;let me the curtains draw.
you cannot read it there.
if he care not fort,he will supply us easily;if he covetously reserve it,how shalls get it?
where is nathaniel,gregory,philip?
by my troths not so good;and i warrant your cousin will say so.
ill beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.
take note,take note,o world,to be direct and honest is not safe.
you mock me,madam;this is not the way to win your daughter.
who have we here?
did i put henry from his native right?
that tongue that tells the story of thy days,(making lascivious comments on thy sport)cannot dispraise,but in a kind of praise,naming thy name,blesses an ill report.
you advise me well.
but shall we dance,if they desire us tot?
anon,anon!
you knew of his departure,as you know what you have undertaen to do in s absence.
and smelt so?
i will catechize the world for him,that is,make questions and by them answer.
my strange and self-abuse is the initiate fear that wants hard use.
why came i hither but to that intent?
my lord,he doth deny to come.
say,didst thou speak with him?
hes but a country gentleman;has done no more than other knights have done;has broken a staff or so;so let it pass.
o,thats the case of the shepherds son.
stay,go,do what you will,the like do i;for live i will not,if my father die.
some griefs are medcinable;that is one of them,for it doth physic love:of his content,all but in that.
but come on,contract us fore these witnesses.
o god!
mended again.
o phoebus,hadst thou never given consent that phathon should check thy fiery steeds,thy burning car never had scorched the earth!
hang em,slaves!
no more o that,my lord,no more o that:you mar all with this starting.
pursue him,and entreat him to a peace:he hath not told us of the captain yet.
ay,if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.
o,loves best habit is a soothing tongue,and age,in love,loves not to have years told.
the empire unpossessed?
o,dismiss this audience,and i shall tell you more.
ay,martius,caius martius.
yes,that a did;and said they were devils incarnate.
because he should have swallowed me too;and when i had been in his belly,i would have kept such a jangling of the bells,that he should never have left,till he cast bells,steeple,church and parish up again.
but yet the king hath drawn the special head of all the land together:the prince of wales,lord john of lancaster,the noble westmoreland,and warlike blunt,and many more corrivals and dear men of estimation and command in arms.
what,a hundred,man?
dost thou hear me,hal?
yea,by the mass,that it is.
no sooner got but lost?
what three things does drink especially provoke?
well,my legitimate,if this letter speed,and my invention thrive,edmund the base shall top the legitimate.
i warrant you,with pure love and troubled brain he hath taen his bow and arrows and is gone forth to sleep.
hot livers and cold purses.
if it should come to the ear of the court how i have been transformed,and how my transformation hath been washed and cudgelled,they would melt me out of my fat drop by drop,and liquor fishermens boots with me.
are you companion to the count rossillon?
go thy ways,kate.
i go.
no,i am no such thing;i am a man as other men are:and there,indeed,let him name his name,and tell them plainly he is snug the joiner.
sovereign of egypt,hail!
faith,holy uncle,would twere come to that!
the treasury of everlasting joy.
and fair words to them.
but passion lends them power,time means,to meet,tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
she that i spake of,our great captains captain,left in the conduct of the bold iago;whose footing here anticipates our thoughts a sennights speed.
all these are portable,with other graces weighd.
this dead king to the living king ill bear.
my lady is unkind,perdy.
what shall i do?
come,my sweet wife,my dearest mother,and my friends of noble touch.
bless me from marrying a usurer!
now you have left your voices,i have no further with you.
madam,according as your ladyship desired,by message craved,so is lord talbot come.
this said,his guilty hand plucked up the latch,and with his knee the door he opens wide.
before the tent of achilles.
greater than both,by the all-hail hereafter!
the son of clarence have i pent up close;his daughter meanly have i matched in marriage;the sons of edward sleep in abrahams bosom,and anne my wife hath bid the world good night.
walk with me;speak freely.
at that that i have killed,my lord,a fly.
break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,thou foul accursed minister of hell!
for if lord percy thrive not,ere the king dismiss his power he means to visit us,for he hath heard of our confederacy,and tis but wisdom to make strong against him.
where is he?
were i as patient as the midnight sleep,by jove,twould be my mind.
we will heal up all;for well create young arthur duke of brittany,and earl of richmond;and this rich fair town we make him lord of.
shall i believe that unsubstantial death is amorous;and that the lean abhorred monster keeps thee here in dark to be his paramour?
did the sea cast it up?
well,sir?
hadst thou no poison mixd,no sharp-ground knife,no sudden mean of death,though neer so mean,but banished to kill me?
crack the lawyers voice,that he may never more false title plead nor sound his quillets shrilly.
take you the lute,and you the set of books;you shall go see your pupils presently.
prithee,peace.
up,up,and see the great dooms image.
ill enter.
farewell,arcite.
i will go seek the king.
how far into the morning is it,lords?
or o mine either?
in faith,my lord,not i.
i do not like your faults.
let him know t.
madam,be still,with reverence may i say;for every word you speak in his behalf is slander to your royal dignity.
she hath directed how i shall take her from her fathers house,what gold and jewels she is furnishd with,what pages suit she hath in readiness.
be the jacks fair within,the jills fair without,and carpets laid,and everything in order?
a true-devoted pilgrim is not weary to measure kingdoms with his feeble steps;much less shall she that hath loves wings to fly,and when the flight is made to one so dear,of such divine perfection,as sir proteus.
most noble timon,call the man before thee.
take heed o th foul fiend:obey thy parents;keep thy word justly;swear not;commit not with mans sworn spouse;set not thy sweet-heart on proud array.
he jests at scars that never felt a wound.
less than an ace,man;for he is dead,he is nothing.
i know his gait;tis he.
false to his bed?
what wicked deem is this?
twere as good a deed as to drink when a mans a-hungry,to challenge him the field,and then to break promise with him and make a fool of him.
if this were so,so were it uttered.
her silence flouts me,and ill be revengd.
he doth appear.
performance is ever the duller for his act and,but in the plainer and simpler kind of people,the deed of saying is quite out of use.
this hand of mine is yet a maiden and an innocent hand,not painted with the crimson spots of blood.
by your leave,gentlemen.
you have lost no reputation at all,unless you repute yourself such a loser.
greybeard,thy love doth freeze.
know,my hearts,i hope well of tomorrow,and will lead you where rather ill expect victorious life than death and honour.
o notable strumpet!
most noble brother,you have done me wrong.
make thine epitaph,that death in me at others lives may laugh.
speak,ill go no further.
an thou dost,ill canvass thee between a pair of sheets.
no,valentine.
they say that they have measured many a mile to tread a measure with you on this grass.
my spirits are nimble.
highest queen of state,great juno comes;i know her by her gait.
an t please your lordship,i hear his majesty is returned with some discomfort from wales.
i do not like dese toys.
whats amiss,may it be gently heard.
this bodiless creation ecstasy is very cunning in.
where meet we?
i pray you,stay;by hell and all hells torments,i will not speak a word.
let us,like merchants,first show foul wares,and think perchance theyll sell;if not,the lustre of the better shall exceed by showing the worse first.
no,mighty king of france.
he shall taste of my bottle:if he have never drunk wine afore,it will go near to remove his fit.
didst thou not tell me,griffith,as thou ledst me,that the great child of honour,cardinal wolsey,was dead?
i go,and it is done.
the lion dying thrusteth forth his paw and wounds the earth,if nothing else,with rage to be oerpowered;and wilt thou,pupil-like,take the correction mildly,kiss the rod,and fawn on rage with base humility,which art a lion and the king of beasts?
i swear to you i think helen loves him better than paris.
bear them hence.
where one on his side fights,thousands will fly.
sir,i thank you;by yea and no,i do.
so do each lord;and either greet him not,or else disdainfully,which shall shake him more than if not lookd on.
the general cause?
doth not the crown of england prove the king?
i marvel why i answered not again.
unmask,dear dear,this moody heaviness,and tell thy grief,that we may give redress.
speak to me;i shall answer for her.
stay my lord legate;you shall first receive the sum of money which i promised should be deliverd to his holiness for clothing me in these grave ornaments.
this falls out better than i could devise.
these are a side that would be glad to have this true which they so seem to fear.
the stars,i see,will kiss the valleys first.
ask me not what i would be,if i were not thersites;for i care not to be the louse of a lazar,so i were not menelaus.
troilus and cressida contents prologue.
and these does she apply for warnings and portents and evils imminent;and on her knee hath beggd that i will stay at home today.
know you the man?
(sings.
you are a merry gamester,my lord sandys.
you scurvy,lousy knave,god pless you!
then as the manner of our country is,in thy best robes,uncoverd,on the bier,thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault where all the kindred of the capulets lie.
come,kiss;and let us part.
thou hast no faith left now,unless thoudst two,and thats far worse than none;better have none than plural faith,which is too much by one.
now all these hearts that do on mine depend,feeling it break,with bleeding groans they pine,and supplicant their sighs to your extend,to leave the battry that you make gainst mine,lending soft audience to my sweet design,and credent soul to that strong-bonded oath,that shall prefer and undertake my troth.
faith,master,i am thinking of the poor men that were cast away before us even now.
this is some priory;in,or we are spoild.
if you contend,a thousand lives must wither.
between who?
ill have no bigger;this doth fit the time,and gentlewomen wear such caps as these.
you remember the daughter of this lord?
shall i return this answer to the king?
it is the more like to be feigned;i pray you keep it in.
ill fee thee to stand up.
but mine i am sure thou art,whoeer thou be,and thus i win thee.
the tongue offends not that reports his death;and he doth sin that doth belie the dead,not he which says the dead is not alive.
a fool,a fool!
divinity of hell!
how have we spent this morning!
lend you him i will for half a hundred years.
help me,help me!
what news?
my eyes,my lord,can look as swift as yours:you saw the mistress,i beheld the maid.
i am indifferent.
i would give you some violets,but they witherd all when my father died.
fare you well,jessica.
when was it she last walked?
jove shield your husband from his hounds today!
saw you the king today,my lord of derby?
remember thee?
quoth he.
witness our too much memorable shame when cressy battle fatally was struck,and all our princes captivd by the hand of that black name,edward,black prince of wales;whiles that his mountain sire,on mountain standing,up in the air,crownd with the golden sun,saw his heroical seed,and smild to see him,mangle the work of nature and deface the patterns that by god and by french fathers had twenty years been made.
for he does all,ye know.
the word is well culled,chose,sweet,and apt,i do assure you,sir,i do assure.
past the mid season.
if i live to see it,i will never trust his word after.
stand aside,nobility.
thanks,sir;all the rest is mute.
as long as hell and richard likes of it.
but what say you to thursday?
and,sir,philotus too!
ill beg her love.
hubert shall be your man,attend on you with all true duty.
ignominy and shame pursue thy life,and live aye with thy name!
theres for thy labour,montjoy.
how came it cloven?
good fellow,whats that?
i must forsake the court:to dot,or no,is certain to me a break-neck.
studies my lady?
what o that?
shall our condition stand?
a false conclusion;i hate it as an unfilled can.
here comes my man.
but if you please to shoot another arrow that self way which you did shoot the first,i do not doubt,as i will watch the aim,or to find both,or bring your latter hazard back again,and thankfully rest debtor for the first.
look who comes yonder.
by these gloves,then,twas he.
my wayward husband hath a hundred times wood me to steal it.
were i the general,thou shouldst have my office ere that correction.
ill undertaket.
for,meeting her of late behind the wood,seeking sweet favours for this hateful fool,i did upbraid her and fall out with her:for she his hairy temples then had rounded with coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers;and that same dew,which sometime on the buds was wont to swell like round and orient pearls,stood now within the pretty flouriets eyes,like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.
i cannot put him to a private soldier that is the leader of so many thousands.
the good gods will mock me presently when i shall pray o,bless my lord and husband!
the matter?
not one of those but had a noble father.
victorious talbot,pardon my abuse.
hang the trifle,woman;take the honour.
well consecrate the steps that ajax makes when they go from achilles.
what do you think of marching to philippi presently?
but with my breath i can revive it,boy.
who is it thou dost call usurper,france?
farewell,farewell!
queen margaret saw thy murdrous falchion smoking in his blood,the which thou once didst bend against her breast,but that thy brothers beat aside the point.
doth sway my life.
his looks are full of peaceful majesty,his head by nature framed to wear a crown,his hand to wield a sceptre,and himself likely in time to bless a regal throne.
madam,speak true.
we may carry it thus for our pleasure,and his penance,till our very pastime,tired out of breath,prompt us to have mercy on him,at which time we will bring the device to the bar,and crown thee for a finder of madmen.
they are never curst but when they are hungry:if there be any of him left,ill bury it.
no,hes in tartar limbo,worse than hell.
it may be he shall marry her;hes goodly,and like enough the duke hath taken notice both of his blood and body.
the justice of it pleases.
o sweet my mother,cast me not away,delay this marriage for a month,a week,or,if you do not,make the bridal bed in that dim monument where tybalt lies.
i was told that by one that knows him better than you.
o nell,sweet nell,if thou dost love thy lord,banish the canker of ambitious thoughts.
whats that?
the powers to whom i pray abhor this fact,how can they then assist me in the act?
mistress ford,by my troth,you are very well met.
i put my hand into the bed and felt them,and they were as cold as any stone.
besides,his souls fair temple is defaced,to whose weak ruins muster troops of cares,to ask the spotted princess how she fares.
as any in vienna,on my word.
skipper,stand back;tis age that nourisheth.
now,by the world tis full of thy foul wrongs.
but how shall we part with them in setting forth?
my lord of warwick,and my brother gloucester,follow fluellen closely at the heels.
i cannot kiss;that is the humour of it;but,adieu.
its the wind.
go,bid her hide him quickly from the duke.
enquire of him,and learn to make a body of a limb.
i take it up;and by that sword i swear which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder,ill answer thee in any fair degree or chivalrous design of knightly trial.
i think this tale would win my daughter too.
our hearts receive your warnings.
gather the sequel by that went before.
o,tis true.
my lord,the mayor of london comes to greet you.
thou best knowst what torment i did find thee in;thy groans did make wolves howl,and penetrate the breasts of ever-angry bears:it was a torment to lay upon the damnd,which sycorax could not again undo;it was mine art,when i arrivd and heard thee,that made gape the pine,and let thee out.
famous plantagenet,most gracious prince,lend favourable ear to our requests,and pardon us the interruption of thy devotion and right christian zeal.
why,whats the matter?
cry,trojans.
bring me my boots.
i will be his conduct.
advocates the court-word for a pheasant.
whence are you?
we leave you now with better company.
et le coude?
i can get no remedy against this consumption of the purse.
why,he hath not been thrice in my company!
to forget their faults,i drink to you.
true,as you said,timon is shrunk indeed,and he thats once denied will hardly speed.
how comes it?
the ocean,overpeering of his list,eats not the flats with more impetuous haste than young laertes,in a riotous head,oerbears your offices.
macduff,this noble passion,child of integrity,hath from my soul wiped the black scruples,reconcild my thoughts to thy good truth and honour.
i must attend mine office,or would have donet myself.
i told your majesty as much before;this proveth edwards love and warwicks honesty.
why should a man whose blood is warm within sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?
her face was to mine eye beyond all wonder;the resthark in thine earas black as incest,which by my knowledge found,the sinful father seemd not to strike,but smooth:but thou knowst this,tis time to fear when tyrants seems to kiss.
leander,he would have lived many a fair year though hero had turned nun,if it had not been for a hot midsummer night;for,good youth,he went but forth to wash him in the hellespont and,being taken with the cramp,was drowned;and the foolish chroniclers of that age found it was hero of sestos.
hark,wretches,how i mean to martyr you.
i think twas soto that your honour means.
we will have vengeance for it,fear thou not.
the hobby-horse is but a colt,and your love perhaps a hackney.
we must not now displease him.
but come,here,as before,never,so help you mercy,how strange or odd soeer i bear myself,as i perchance hereafter shall think meet to put an antic disposition on that you,at such times seeing me,never shall,with arms encumberd thus,or this head-shake,or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,as well,we know,or we could and if we would,or if we list to speak;or there be and if they might,or such ambiguous giving out,to note that you know aught of me:this not to do.
sweet valentine,adieu.
they are almost here.
i am settled,and bend up each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
to a ropes end,sir;and to that end am i returnd.
to such proceeding whoever but his approbation added,though not his prime consent,he did not flow from honourable courses.
ay,as an ostler,that for th poorest piece will bear the knave by th volume.
the tide is nownay,not thy tide of tears,that tide will stay me longer than i should.
the night so packd,i post unto my pretty;heart hath his hope and eyes their wished sight;sorrow changd to solace,solace mixd with sorrow;for why,she sighd,and bade me come tomorrow.
what,ho!
i am ill at reckoning.
most absolute lord,my mistress cleopatra sent me to thee.
why then tonight let us assay our plot;which,if it speed,is wicked meaning in a lawful deed,and lawful meaning in a lawful act,where both not sin,and yet a sinful fact.
i am right glad that his health is well,sir.
are not you a tailor?
but,after all this fooling,i would not have it so.
how goes it now,sir?
do you set down your name in the scroll of youth,that are written down old with all the characters of age?
was it we?
get ye all three into the box-tree.
if they miscarry,we miscarry too.
would i were as deep under the earth as i am above!
but i would fain see it once,an please god of his grace that i might see.
o,i have bought the mansion of a love,but not possessd it;and though i am sold,not yet enjoyd.
unto our brother france,and to our sister,health and fair time of day;joy and good wishes to our most fair and princely cousin katharine;and,as a branch and member of this royalty,by whom this great assembly is contrivd,we do salute you,duke of burgundy;and,princes french,and peers,health to you all!
here was thy fathers bed,here in my breast;thou art the next of blood,and tis thy right:lo in this hollow cradle take thy rest,my throbbing heart shall rock thee day and night:there shall not be one minute in an hour wherein i will not kiss my sweet loves flower.
is not the lady constance in this troop?
when was the hour i ever contradicted your desire,or made it not mine too?
let me love him for that,and do you love him because i do.
he dares not come there for the candle,for you see,it is already in snuff.
where is the evidence that doth accuse me?
is the senate possessed of this?
and so to arms,victorious father,to quell the rebels and their complices.
says one;what cur is that?
now or whensoever,provided i be so able as now.
said he not so?
come,madam,come.
do it then,that we may account thee a whoremaster and a knave,which notwithstanding,thou shalt be no less esteemed.
colbrand the giant,that same mighty man?
these time ambles withal.
for shame,you generals!
after,to marry her,ill add three thousand crowns to what is passd already.
it is too heavy for so light a tune.
to him one of the other twins was bound,whilst i had been like heedful of the other.
o my dear lord,i crave no other,nor no better man.
these were her words,uttered with mild disdain:tell him,in hope hell prove a widower shortly,ill wear the willow garland for his sake.
you think ill weep;no,ill not weep:i have full cause of weeping;but this heart shall break into a hundred thousand flaws or ere ill weep.
my worthy lord,if ever tamora were gracious in those princely eyes of thine,then hear me speak indifferently for all;and at my suit,sweet,pardon what is past.
the duke is coming.
o,that a lady of one man refusd,should of another therefore be abusd!
o,take her home,mistress,take her home:these blushes of hers must be quenched with some present practice.
sure,sure,such carping is not commendable.
your knees to me?
but upon the fairest boughs,or at every sentence end,will i rosalinda write,teaching all that read to know the quintessence of every sprite heaven would in little show.
the tidings that i bring will make my boldness manners.
to confess,and be hanged for his labour.
so from himself impiety hath wrought,that for his prey to pray he doth begin,as if the heavens should countenance his sin.
is this certain?
o,how this discord doth afflict my soul!
would thou hadst neer been born!
wherefore speaks he this to her he hates?
good faith,it is such another nan!
i have seen the day that i have worn a visor,and could tell a whispering tale in a fair ladys ear,such as would please;tis gone,tis gone,tis gone,you are welcome,gentlemen!
i think she means that there were more than one confederate in the fact.
god and our innocence defend and guard us!
how now,malvolio?
pardon,my lord.
and yet there is a virtuous man whom i have often noted in thy company,but i know not his name.
ay,sir.
pale trembling coward,there i throw my gage,disclaiming here the kindred of the king,and lay aside my high bloods royalty,which fear,not reverence,makes thee to except.
had henry got an empire by his marriage,and all the wealthy kingdoms of the west,theres reason he should be displeased at it.
the clown bore it,the fool sent it,and the lady hath it.
they were usd to bend,to send their smiles before them to achilles,to come as humbly as they usd to creep to holy altars.
yet welcome,warriors!
even when i wake it is without me,as within me;not imagind,felt.
let me ask my sister pardon.
do then,but ill not hear.
gloucester,thou wilt answer this before the pope.
they,by observing of him,do bear themselves like foolish justices:he,by conversing with them,is turned into a justice-like serving-man.
well,thats set down.
let rome in tiber melt,and the wide arch of the ranged empire fall!
well,the truth is,sir john,you live in great infamy.
wert thou the unicorn,pride and wrath would confound thee and make thine own self the conquest of thy fury;wert thou a bear,thou wouldst be killed by the horse;wert thou a horse,thou wouldst be seized by the leopard;wert thou a leopard,thou wert germane to the lion,and the spots of thy kindred were jurors on thy life.
fortune,good night:smile once more,turn thy wheel!
is he inconstant,sir,in his favours?
what,thick-skin?
tis strange.
yours,yours.
about the sixth hour,when beasts most graze,birds best peck,and men sit down to that nourishment which is called supper.
yes,captain;but with this acknowledgment,that god fought for us.
when night-dogs run,all sorts of deer are chased.
sir,i thank you.
o,i followed that i blush to look upon.
speak and be hanged!
you shall have letters from me to some friends that will sweep your way for you.
by providence divine.
so hath the business that i come to speak of.
if the man were alive,and would deny it,zounds,i would make him eat a piece of my sword.
safely in harbour is the kings ship;in the deep nook,where once thou calldst me up at midnight to fetch dew from the still-vexd bermoothes;there shes hid:the mariners all under hatches stowed;who,with a charm joind to their suffred labour,i have left asleep:and for the rest o th fleet,which i dispersd,they all have met again,and are upon the mediterranean flote bound sadly home for naples,supposing that they saw the kings ship wrackd,and his great person perish.
peter bullcalf o th green!
tis not impossible but one,the wickedst caitiff on the ground,may seem as shy,as grave,as just,as absolute,as angelo;even so may angelo,in all his dressings,characts,titles,forms,be an arch-villain.
seest thou not,i say,what a deformed thief this fashion is?
he durst not sit there had your father lived.
my lord,well do it throughly.
the augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.
when i came back,(for this was brief)i found them close together,at blow and thrust,even as again they were when you yourself did part them.
how now,ulysses!
traitors,avaunt!
for mowbray and myself are like two men that vow a long and weary pilgrimage;then let us take a ceremonious leave and loving farewell of our several friends.
so doth the greater glory dim the less.
look where he goes even now out at the portal.
now,my lord hastings and sir william stanley,leave off to wonder why i drew you hither into this chiefest thicket of the park.
mend em,for shame,my lords.
i cannot get him out o th house.
welcome,my lord.
what,we have many goodly days to see.
lo in the orient when the gracious light lifts up his burning head,each under eye doth homage to his new-appearing sight,serving with looks his sacred majesty,and having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,resembling strong youth in his middle age,yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,attending on his golden pilgrimage:but when from highmost pitch with weary car,like feeble age he reeleth from the day,the eyes(fore duteous)now converted are from his low tract and look another way:so thou,thyself out-going in thy noon:unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.
this hair i tear is mine;my name is constance;i was geoffreys wife;young arthur is my son,and he is lost.
i wish mine eyes would,with themselves,shut up my thoughts:i find they are inclind to do so.
and being seated,and domestic broils clean over-blown,themselves,the conquerors make war upon themselves,brother to brother,blood to blood,self against self.
have they denied him?
spies of the volsces held me in chase,that i was forced to wheel three or four miles about;else had i,sir,half an hour since brought my report.
deep sounds make lesser noise than shallow fords,and sorrow ebbs,being blown with wind of words.
march sadly after;grace my mournings here in weeping after this untimely bier.
mark what i say,which you shall find by every syllable a faithful verity.
more villain thou.
he is indeed a horse,and all other jades you may call beasts.
so i would you did;then twere past all doubt youd call your children yours.
we are spoiled;and yonder he is:deny him,forswear him,or else we are all undone.
it grieves me for the death of claudio,but theres no remedy.
laertes,was your father dear to you?
most dearst!
say,what art thou,that talkst of kings and queens?
i thank you,madam,that you tender her.
degenerate bastard!
and they that are most galled with my folly,they most must laugh.
for night-owls shriek where mounting larks should sing.
i do not fear it.
within his tent;but ill-disposd,my lord.
our throats are sentenced and stay upon execution.
who shall begin?
why,what concerns his freedom unto me?
must there no more be done?
my brother gloucesters voice?
my griefs are double.
didst thou not mark my face,was it not white?
what answer makes your grace to the rebels supplication?
i think she has.
rest you merry.
why me,timon?
o hateful,vaporous,and foggy night,since thou art guilty of my cureless crime,muster thy mists to meet the eastern light,make war against proportioned course of time;or if thou wilt permit the sun to climb his wonted height,yet ere he go to bed,knit poisonous clouds about his golden head.
here comes sleeve,and tother.
they nothing doubt prevailing,and to make it brief wars.
you are light into my hands,where you are like to live.
then is my sovereign slain?
three great ones of the city,in personal suit to make me his lieutenant,off-cappd to him;and by the faith of man,i know my price,i am worth no worse a place.
i must a dozen mile tonight.
and even with this i lost fair englands view,and bid mine eyes be packing with my heart,and called them blind and dusky spectacles,for losing ken of albions wished coast.
yet hear me speak.
first gaoler.
i wish your highness a quiet night,and my good mistress will remember in my prayers.
foreknowing that the truth will fall out so.
these bloody accidents must excuse my manners,that so neglected you.
what eve,what serpent,hath suggested thee to make a second fall of cursed man?
thou concludst like the sanctimonious pirate that went to sea with the ten commandments,but scraped one out of the table.
during which siege the principal men of the army meeting one evening at the tent of sextus tarquinius,the kings son,in their discourses after supper,everyone commended the virtues of his own wife;among whom collatinus extolled the incomparable chastity of his wife lucretia.
sweet mercy is nobilitys true badge.
of this my letters before did satisfy you.
in very good time.
this before all the world do i prefer;this maugre all the world will i keep safe,or some of you shall smoke for it in rome.
the news is,sir,the volsces are in arms.
ere you go,hear this:as far as doth the capitol exceed the meanest house in rome,so far my son this ladys husband here,this,do you see?
tis time we twain did show ourselves i th field,and to that end assemble we immediate council.
how fares my lord?
bring him before us.
by my trot,dere is no duke that the court is know to come.
his sole child,my lord,and bequeathed to my overlooking.
that spirits possessed with haste that wounds th unsisting postern with these strokes.
this ill presage advisedly she marketh:even as the wind is hushd before it raineth,or as the wolf doth grin before he barketh,or as the berry breaks before it staineth,or like the deadly bullet of a gun,his meaning struck her ere his words begun.
so,if he tell us his noble deeds,we must also tell him our noble acceptance of them.
when i have told you that,i have told you all.
tot again,come.
my credit now stands on such slippery ground,that one of two bad ways you must conceit me,either a coward or a flatterer.
who keeps the gate here,ho?
the king of england,when we know the king.
i have not yet made known to mariana a word of this.
none but that ugly treason of mistrust,which makes me fear th enjoying of my love.
gentlemen and soldiers,pardon me.
i am fain to dine and sup with water and bran.
shame and eternal shame,nothing but shame!
he is himself alone,to answer all the city.
let that suffice you.
the king shall understand it presently.
o sweet pistol!
masters,spread yourselves.
moreover,if you please,a niece of mine shall there attend you.
my lord,i long to hear it at full.
ah,that my fear were false;ah,that it were!
let my master in,luce.
to thee i pray;sweet clifford,pity me!
what mean these fellows?
sir,i am vexd:bear with my weakness;my old brain is troubled.
come,go with me.
my voice is now the kings,my looks mine own.
what other harm have i,good lady,done,but spoke the harm that is by others done?
ill follow,as they say,for reward.
i would to god all strifes were well compounded.
run,master,run,for gods sake,take a house.
ill be your purse-bearer,and leave you for an hour.
if you will help to bear it,sir john,take all,or half,for easing me of the carriage.
now,if you have a station in the file,not i th worst rank of manhood,sayt;and i will put that business in your bosoms,whose execution takes your enemy off,grapples you to the heart and love of us,who wear our health but sickly in his life,which in his death were perfect.
heres a young maid with travel much oppressed,and faints for succour.
hang all the husbands that cannot do that feat,youll leave yourself hardly one subject.
the sands are numbered that makes up my life;here must i stay,and here my life must end.
not unlike,each way,to better yours.
i am disgraced,impeached,and baffled here,pierced to the soul with slanders venomed spear,the which no balm can cure but his heart-blood which breathed this poison.
will it not be?
you must contrary me!
and when i have my meed,i will away,for this will out,and then i must not stay.
hark ye,lords;ye see i have given her physic,and you must needs bestow her funeral;the fields are near,and you are gallant grooms.
nay,i prithee,put on this gown and this beard;make him believe thou art sir topas the curate.
not so sick,my lord,as she is troubled with thick-coming fancies,that keep her from her rest.
prithee,if thou lovst me,tell me.
my barge stays.
what is the focative case,william?
what villain touchd his body,that did stab,and not for justice?
look you,my good lord,i must entreat you,honour me so much as to advance this jewel.
fore god,you have here a goodly dwelling,and a rich.
away with her.
whither,my lord?
your friar is now your prince.
come then,and,eros,thy master dies thy scholar.
your partner,as i hear,must die tomorrow,and i am going with instruction to him.
how long her face is drawn?
yes,and a gentlewomans son.
how shall i know thee again?
how might we see falstaff bestow himself tonight in his true colours,and not ourselves be seen?
it must be a very plausive invention that carries it.
my hope is gone,now suffolk is deceased.
o,my lord posthumus!
in things right true my heart and eyes have erred,and to this false plague are they now transferred.
yet benedick was such another,and now is he become a man:he swore he would never marry;and yet now,in despite of his heart,he eats his meat without grudging:and how you may be converted,i know not;but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
tyrell,i mean those bastards in the tower.
away,make haste.
would root these beauties as he roots the mead.
dear,trouble not yourself;the morn is cold.
sweet helen,i must woo you to help unarm our hector.
thrift,thrift,horatio!
when this is known,then to divide the times:so many hours must i tend my flock;so many hours must i take my rest;so many hours must i contemplate;so many hours must i sport myself;so many days my ewes have been with young;so many weeks ere the poor fools will ean;so many years ere i shall shear the fleece.
whats this?
but who is here?
pray heaven it hold so.
here,tamora;though grieved with killing grief.
what are they called?
thou sayest true,ifaith so they must;for your bride goes to that with shame which is her way to go with warrant.
ill ask them.
fie,treacherous hue,that will betray with blushing the close enacts and counsels of thy heart!
madam,i heard her speak.
alas,poor shepherd.
mercy but murders,pardoning those that kill.
this night he meaneth with a corded ladder to climb celestial silvias chamber window,myself in counsel,his competitor.
lechery,lechery!
bid them all fly;for when i am revenged upon my charm,i have done all.
and,noble dauphin,albeit we swear a voluntary zeal and an unurgd faith to your proceedings;yet believe me,prince,i am not glad that such a sore of time should seek a plaster by contemnd revolt,and heal the inveterate canker of one wound by making many.
well said,my lord.
the voice of dead thaisa!
if i could bid the fifth welcome with so good heart as i can bid the other four farewell,i should be glad of his approach.
the temple of virtue was she;yea,and she herself.
hear me,good brother.
old i do wax;and from my weary limbs honour is cudgelld.
come,night,come romeo;come,thou day in night;for thou wilt lie upon the wings of night whiter than new snow upon a ravens back.
my fear hath catchd your fondness;now i see the mystery of your loneliness,and find your salt tears head.
ill tell you who time ambles withal,who time trots withal,who time gallops withal,and who he stands still withal.
thou wast whelped a dog,and thou shalt famish a dogs death.
whats the matter,sweetheart?
wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?
you are a tame man,go!
theyll mock us now downright.
that must we also.
is there not my father,my uncle,and myself?
look here he comes himself.
if this be so,why blame you me to love you?
i have chargd thee not to haunt about my doors;in honest plainness thou hast heard me say my daughter is not for thee;and now in madness,being full of supper and distempering draughts,upon malicious bravery,dost thou come to start my quiet.
sword,i will hallow thee for this thy deed,and hang thee oer my tomb when i am dead.
why take we hands then?
you touched my vein at first.
of piercing a hogshead!
go back again,thou slave,and fetch him home.
how this grace speaks his own standing!
but might you dot,and do the world no wrong,if so your heart were touched with that remorse as mine is to him?
i am sorry that with better heed and judgement i had not quoted him.
york set him on to fight and die in shame that,talbot dead,great york might bear the name.
so you were a knave at his service indeed.
write,write,rynaldo,to this unworthy husband of his wife;let every word weigh heavy of her worth,that he does weigh too light;my greatest grief,though little he do feel it,set down sharply.
ford help to search my house this one time.
o,you and i have heard our fathers say,there was a brutus once that would have brookd th eternal devil to keep his state in rome,as easily as a king!
shylock,albeit i neither lend nor borrow by taking nor by giving of excess,yet to supply the ripe wants of my friend,ill break a custom.
your highness part is to receive our duties:and our duties are to your throne and state,children and servants;which do but what they should,by doing everything safe toward your love and honour.
you may be rightly just,whatever i shall think.
but with their banishments.
o phoebe,phoebe,phoebe!
givet me again.
thou believst no god.
they could be content to visit other places,and come down with fearful bravery,thinking by this face to fasten in our thoughts that they have courage;but tis not so.
i called thee then,vain flourish of my fortune;i called thee then,poor shadow,painted queen,the presentation of but what i was,the flattering index of a direful pageant;one heaved a-high to be hurled down below,a mother only mocked with two fair babes;a dream of what thou wast;a garish flag,to be the aim of every dangerous shot;a sign of dignity,a breath,a bubble;a queen in jest,only to fill the scene.
she in th habiliments of the goddess isis that day appeared,and oft before gave audience,as tis reported,so.
well,peace be with you!
he hath found the meaning,for which we mean to have his head.
he eats nothing but doves,love;and that breeds hot blood,and hot blood begets hot thoughts,and hot thoughts beget hot deeds,and hot deeds is love.
how black?
nay,blush not,cleopatra.
spare england,for it is your native coast.
hero and margaret have by this played their parts with beatrice,and then the two bears will not bite one another when they meet.
the story then goes false you threw it him out of a casement.
whiles i threat,he lives.
send for the man and ask him.
fate,hear me what i say:i reck not though thou end my life today.
a fourth!
then,richard earl of cambridge,there is yours;there yours,lord scroop of masham;and,sir knight,grey of northumberland,this same is yours.
upon the king!
was ever son so rued a fathers death?
and did you see the handkerchief?
who stockd my servant?
and for his dreams,i wonder hes so simple to trust the mockery of unquiet slumbers.
hortensio,hark:this gentleman is happily arrivd,my mind presumes,for his own good and yours.
i never heard of such another encounter,which lames report to follow it,and undoes description to do it.
sometime the flood prevails,and then the wind;now one the better,then another best,both tugging to be victors,breast to breast,yet neither conqueror nor conquered.
this monument of the victory will i bear.
why then,you left meo,the gods forbid!
good ancient,you are welcome.
that will i make before i let thee go.
i do protest i never heard of it;and,if you prove it,ill repay it back or yield up aquitaine.
go with me to clothe you as becomes you.
be pleasd awhile.
thus answer i in name of benedick,but hear these ill news with the ears of claudio.
thats certain,i,for my part,knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal.
i know,sir,we weary you.
theres a daisy.
and to thee.
hector was but a trojan in respect of this.
had not that been as proper?
o brave sir!
my lord,worcester,get thee gone,for i do see danger and disobedience in thine eye:o,sir,your presence is too bold and peremptory,and majesty might never yet endure the moody frontier of a servant brow.
how now?
more jewels yet?
but they think we are too dear.
if she,my liege,can make me know this clearly,ill love her dearly,ever,ever dearly.
if it were done when tis done,then twere well it were done quickly.
they are all perceived without ye.
nay,conceive me,conceive me,sweet coz.
i had a son,now outlawd from my blood;he sought my life but lately,very late:i lovd him,friend,no father his son dearer:true to tell thee,the grief hath crazd my wits.
o charmian,i will never go from hence.
unkindness may do much;and his unkindness may defeat my life,but never taint my love.
ah,juliet,if the measure of thy joy be heapd like mine,and that thy skill be more to blazon it,then sweeten with thy breath this neighbour air,and let rich musics tongue unfold the imagind happiness that both receive in either by this dear encounter.
what,do you shake at that?
put them not tot.
live,noble helicane!
arise forth from the couch of lasting night,thou hate and terror to prosperity,and i will kiss thy detestable bones and put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows,and ring these fingers with thy household worms,and stop this gap of breath with fulsome dust,and be a carrion monster like thyself.
o,this will make my mother die with grief!
thy friend?
o mischief strangely thwarting!
o,bless me here with thy victorious hand,whose fortunes romes best citizens applaud.
what horse?
speak;tell me.
what we can do well do,to do you service.
so do the kings of france unto this day,howbeit they would hold up this salic law to bar your highness claiming from the female,and rather choose to hide them in a net than amply to imbar their crooked titles usurpd from you and your progenitors.
has sat i the stocks all night,poor gallant knave.
good your grace,pardon me.
i am so full of business i cannot answer thee acutely.
and i,my lord.
and when mine oratory drew toward end,i bid them that did love their countrys good cry god save richard,englands royal king!
for that he dares us to t.
now,charmian!
whats the matter,that this distempered messenger of wet,the many-colourd iris,rounds thine eye?
sit,worthy friends.
for how can this be true,that you stand forfeit,being those that sue?
the unhappy sons of old andronicus,brought hither in a most unlucky hour,to find thy brother bassianus dead.
so that in ventring ill we leave to be the things we are,for that which we expect;and this ambitious foul infirmity,in having much,torments us with defect of that we have.
i would have left it on the board,so soon as i had made my meal,and parted with prayrs for the provider.
tybalt,my cousin!
so we be rid of them,do with them what thou wilt.
mad composition!
presume not that i am the thing i was;for god doth know,so shall the world perceive,that i have turnd away my former self;so will i those that kept me company.
alack,what heinous sin is it in me to be ashamed to be my fathers child!
and,caius lucius,although the victor,we submit to csar and to the roman empire,promising to pay our wonted tribute,from the which we were dissuaded by our wicked queen,whom heavens in justice,both on her and hers,have laid most heavy hand.
my husband is on earth,my faith in heaven.
have i,my lord?
let one be sent to pray achilles see us at our tent.
save me and hover oer me with your wings,you heavenly guards!
well,my dread lordso must i call you now.
didst speak him fair?
with a thief to the gallows;for though he go as softly as foot can fall,he thinks himself too soon there.
what,shall we toward the tower?
it is not you i call for.
but,my good lord,i wot not by what power,(but by some power it is)my love to hermia,melted as the snow,seems to me now as the remembrance of an idle gaud which in my childhood i did dote upon;and all the faith,the virtue of my heart,the object and the pleasure of mine eye,is only helena.
o my lord,the times and titles now are altered strangely with me since first you knew me.
the sweetest sleep and fairest-boding dreams that ever entered in a drowsy head have i since your departure had,my lords.
grief boundeth where it falls,not with the empty hollowness,but weight.
an her hair were not somewhat darker than helens,well,go to,there were no more comparison between the women.
come,whats agamemnon?
delivered with good respect.
some good i mean to do,despite of mine own nature.
i will never trust a man again for keeping his sword clean,nor believe he can have everything in him by wearing his apparel neatly.
wheres the cook?
i am bound to thee for ever.
lack,to what end?
in complete glory she reveald herself;and,whereas i was black and swart before,with those clear rays which she infused on me that beauty am i blest with which you may see.
beshrew your heart for sending me about to catch my death with jauncing up and down.
no,forbear;the lethargy must have his quiet course.
nay,then i will not:you shall have the mustard,or else you get no beef of grumio.
caius go home,john rugby;i come anon.
barkloughly castle call they this at hand?
he shall not,isabel,if you give me love.
grew i not faint,and fell i not downright?
nay,master,both in mind and in my shape.
and now,laertes,whats the news with you?
see the hell of having a false woman:my bed shall be abused,my coffers ransacked,my reputation gnawn at;and i shall not only receive this villanous wrong,but stand under the adoption of abominable terms,and by him that does me this wrong.
you do not meet a man but frowns;our bloods no more obey the heavens than our courtiers still seem as does the kings.
come,sister.
come,our queen.
what,are they broken?
procures she still,ha?
o tamora,be called a gentle queen,and with thine own hands kill me in this place!
then would to god that i had never seen t!
what is it you would see?
pray now,buy some.
when law can do no right,let it be lawful that law bar no wrong.
thats a degree to love.
that pure congeald white,high taurus snow,fannd with the eastern wind,turns to a crow when thou holdst up thy hand.
light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn;if so,our copper buys no better treasure.
well,i say no;and therefore,for assurance,lets each one send unto his wife,and he whose wife is most obedient,to come at first when he doth send for her,shall win the wager which we will propose.
patience awhile,good cassio.
but ships are but boards,sailors but men;there be land-rats and water-rats,water-thieves and land-thievesi mean piratesand then there is the peril of waters,winds,and rocks.
will it give place to flexure and low bending?
il me commandevous dire que vous faites vous prt,car ce soldat ici est dispos toutcette heure de couper votre gorge.
niece,will you look to those things i told you of?
do you not see pompey is uncasing for the combat?
look you what i have from the loving king.
but it raises the greater war between him and his discretion.
accursed and unquiet wrangling days,how many of you have mine eyes beheld?
wherefore do you look upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?
this quarry cries on havoc.
not so;but it hath been the longest night that eer i watched,and the most heaviest.
no black envy shall mark my grave.
yours,by this hand:and to see how he prizes the foolish woman your wife!
return to th tribunes.
she bears the purse too;she is a region in guiana,all gold and bounty.
if we do lose this battle,then is this the very last time we shall speak together:what are you then determined to do?
little honour to be much believed,and most pernicious purpose!
yes,sure;o heaven!
prithee go hence,or i shall show the cinders of my spirits through th ashes of my chance.
yield to my hand;my hand shall conquer thee.
nay,but to live in the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,stewd in corruption,honeying and making love over the nasty sty.
pardon,dear father.
what mean you,madam?
i cry your mercy,madam;was it you?
this fellow had a volscian to his mother,his wife is in corioles,and his child like him by chance.
i bepray you,let me borrow my arms again.
ay,or ill hang her.
madam,twas ariadne,passioning for theseus perjury and unjust flight,which i so lively acted with my tears that my poor mistress,moved therewithal,wept bitterly;and would i might be dead if i in thought felt not her very sorrow.
in christning shalt thou have two god-fathers.
if thou refuse and wilt encounter with my wrath,say so;the bastard brains with these my proper hands shall i dash out.
but this cannot continue.
his jewish heart.
a horse!
there was casting up of eyes,holding up of hands,with countenance of such distraction that they were to be known by garment,not by favour.
he did,my lord,four days ere i set forth,and at the time of my departure thence he was much feard by his physicians.
tis true;for you are over boots in love,and yet you never swam the hellespont.
and yet methinks it should not,for he hath still been tried a holy man.
which is the way?
now,for my life,the knave doth court my love:pedascule,ill watch you better yet.
what,standst thou idle here?
my lord,what is your will?
by the lord,i knew ye as well as he that made ye.
i acquainted him with the cause in controversy between the jew and antonio the merchant.
thy priesthood saves thy life.
her heads declined,and death will seize her but your comfort makes the rescue.
so are the prince and claudio,who accusd her upon the error that you heard debated:but margaret was in some fault for this,although against her will,as it appears in the true course of all the question.
spakest thou of juliet?
good fortune then,to make me blest or cursedst among men!
he rose against him,being his sovereign,and made him to resign his crown perforce.
twas a contention in public,which may,without contradiction,suffer the report.
her husband,knave!
the harlots cheek,beautied with plastering art,is not more ugly to the thing that helps it than is my deed to my most painted word.
go to;homois a common name to all men.
hector shall have a great catch and knock out either of your brains:a were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel.
and since the quarrel will bear no colour for the thing he is,fashion it thus:that what he is,augmented,would run to these and these extremities:and therefore think him as a serpents egg which hatchd,would,as his kind grow mischievous;and kill him in the shell.
where then do you know best we be affied,and such assurance taen as shall with either parts agreement stand?
ay,that would be known.
then,good prince,no longer session hold upon my shame,but let my trial be mine own confession.
to shallow rivers,to whose falls melodious birds sing madrigals.
hush,here comes antony.
go,do it instantly.
please you,sir,the king your father was reputed for a prince most prudent,of an excellent and unmatched wit and judgement.
if music be the food of love,play on,give me excess of it;that,surfeiting,the appetite may sicken and so die.
holy gonzalo,honourable man,mine eyes,een sociable to the show of thine,fall fellowly drops.
shall we curse the planets of mishap that plotted thus our glorys overthrow?
you are now out of your text:but we will draw the curtain and show you the picture.
what i have done that might your nature,honour,and exception roughly awake,i here proclaim was madness.
look where it comes again.
o earth!
not till he hears how antony is touched with what is spoke already.
why,how now?
for your great graces heaped upon me,poor undeserver,i can nothing render but allegiant thanks,my prayers to heaven for you,my loyalty,which ever has and ever shall be growing,till death,that winter,kill it.
i speak no more than truth.
not well?
search windsor castle,elves,within and out.
you speak this to fetch me in,my lord.
tis right.
wast born i th forest here?
why,here in denmark.
no more hearing.
but by and by comes back to romeo,who had but newly entertaind revenge,and tot they go like lightning;for,ere i could draw to part them was stout tybalt slain;and as he fell did romeo turn and fly.
o,tis the cunning livery of hell the damnedst body to invest and cover in precise guards!
my heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
she is horribly in love with him,poor beast;but he is like his master,coy and scornful.
by my troth,a good song.
this is the palace of the fearful king,and this the regal seat.
how now shall this be compassed?
do you not educate youth at the charge-house on the top of the mountain?
alack,poor soul!
i thank thee with all my heart,kind master bardolph;and welcome,my tall fellow.
now cracks a noble heart.
god send the wench no worse fortune!
tullus aufidius,is he within your walls?
and let our hearts,as subtle masters do,stir up their servants to an act of rage,and after seem to chide em.
marry,ill,to like him that neer it likes.
o kate!
uncle,adieu.
what is your pleasure,madam?
i am the youngest son of sir rowland de boys;he was my father,and he is thrice a villain that says such a father begot villains.
but they knew what they did;i am to do a good turn for them.
by my soul,nor i:and yet,to satisfy this good old man,i would bend under any heavy weight that hell enjoin me to.
she give it cassio!
can it be undone?
by all dianas waiting women yond,and by herself,i will not tell you whose.
sirrah,leave us to ourselves;we must confer.
much is your sorrow,mine ten times so much.
faith,theres a dozen of em,with delicate fine hats,and most courteous feathers,which bow the head and nod at every man.
help martius,help!
misuse the tenour of thy kinsmans trust?
well,sir.
shes an excellent sweet lady,and,out of all suspicion,she is virtuous.
neer pull your hat upon your brows.
hence,prating peasant.
set me the crown upon my pillow here.
like her?
first,for this woman,to justify this worthy nobleman,so vulgarly and personally accused,her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,till she herself confess it.
all love the womb that their first bred,then give my tongue like leave to love my head.
farewell,good strato.
caesar is touched.
i shall,king harry.
how should this be?
give me the letter,i will look on it.
tis he,my lord.
confusion fall nay,then ill stop your mouth.
and now,i pray you,sir,for still tis beating in my mind,your reason for raising this sea-storm?
how if it be false,son?
let her witness it.
dost thou not suspect my years?
i am not a-hungry,i thank you,forsooth.
the hearts of old gave hands,but our new heraldry is hands,not hearts.
he comes,like the catastrophe of the old comedy:my cue is villainous melancholy,with a sigh like tom obedlam.
what ho,within!
well,sir,ill bring you to our master lear and leave you to attend him.
this wide and universal theatre presents more woeful pageants than the scene wherein we play in.
you are for dreams and slumbers,brother priest;you fur your gloves with reason.
to this gear,the sooner the better.
o now be gone,more light and light it grows.
your mother.
for,oh,loves bow shoots buck and doe;the shaft confounds not that it wounds,but tickles still the sore.
if that will lose ye,farewell,palamon.
welcome to cyprus.
the polled bachelor,whose youth,like wanton boys through bonfires,have skipped thy flame,at seventy thou canst catch,and make him,to the scorn of his hoarse throat,abuse young lays of love.
come,arm him.
i warrant you,sir;the white cold virgin snow upon my heart abates the ardour of my liver.
thus to have said,as you were fore-advised,had touched his spirit and tried his inclination;from him plucked either his gracious promise,which you might,as cause had called you up,have held him to;or else it would have galled his surly nature,which easily endures not article tying him to aught.
once more,my lord of winchester,i charge you,embrace and love this man.
and therewithal the best;or let her beauty look through a casement to allure false hearts,and be false with them.
who saw the duke of clarence?
sir proteus,you are stayed for.
as i suck blood,i will some mercy show.
i thought you had been willing to resign.
unruly blasts wait on the tender spring;unwholesome weeds take root with precious flowers;the adder hisses where the sweet birds sing;what virtue breeds iniquity devours.
hide fox,and all after.
thou art not what thou seemst;and if the same,thou seemst not what thou art,a god,a king;for kings like gods should govern everything.
forgive my general and exceptless rashness,you perpetual sober gods!
you are very sensible,and yet you miss my sense:i mean hortensio is afeard of you.
hold,theres a tester for thee.
o,sir!
and god knows whether those that bawl out of the ruins of thy linen shall inherit his kingdom:but the midwives say the children are not in the fault;whereupon the world increases,and kindreds are mightily strengthened.
remember our reward,when the deeds done.
sir,i will give you as much as this old man does when the business is performed,and remain,as he says,your pawn till it be brought you.
she swore,in faith,twas strange,twas passing strange;twas pitiful,twas wondrous pitiful.
have i in conquest stretchd mine arm so far,to be afeard to tell grey-beards the truth?
then if she that lays thee out says thou art a fair corse,ill be sworn and sworn upont she never shrouded any but lazars.
in her consists my happiness and thine;without her follows to myself and thee,herself,the land,and many a christian soul,death,desolation,ruin,and decay.
if ever you prove false one to another,since i have taken such pains to bring you together,let all pitiful goers-between be calld to the worlds end after my namecall them all pandars;let all constant men be troiluses,all false women cressids,and all brokers between pandars.
i would i were,to be revenged on thee.
were you a woman,as the rest goes even,i should my tears let fall upon your cheek,and say,thrice welcome,drowned viola.
call them forth.
pray hear me.
and if you love me,as i think you do,lets kiss and part,for we have much to do.
twas i did the thing you wot of.
let t alone.
and after this,let caesar seat him sure,for we will shake him,or worse days endure.
and,to sink in it,should you burden love;too great oppression for a tender thing.
nay,patience,or we break the sinews of our plot.
fold it over and over,tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to your lover.
what doth gravity out of his bed at midnight?
marry,amen!
i know not if t be true,but i,for mere suspicion in that kind,will do as if for surety.
if i could praise each part of him to th all i have spoke,your arcite did not lose by t,for he that was thus good encountered yet his better.
how hast thou offended?
a pox o your throat,you bawling,blasphemous,incharitable dog!
it is my lords.
open the gates;tis gloucester that calls.
it is no time to discourse,so chrish save me.
no,be assurd you shall not find me,daughter,after the slander of most stepmothers,evil-eyd unto you.
but we came to see the statue of our queen:your gallery have we passd through,not without much content in many singularities;but we saw not that which my daughter came to look upon,the statue of her mother.
my queen and son are gone to france for aid;and,as i hear,the great commanding warwick is thither gone to crave the french kings sister to wife for edward.
simply the thing i am shall make me live.
o,negligent and heedless discipline!
what traitor hears me and says not amen?
the legate of the pope hath been with me,and i have made a happy peace with him;and he hath promisd to dismiss the powers led by the dauphin.
i faith,i thank him;he hath bid me to a calfs-head and a capon,the which if i do not carve most curiously,say my knifes naught.
to him in thine own voice,and bring me word how thou findst him.
if they suffer our departure,deaths the word.
a joint-stool.
he looks well on t.
your daughter spent in genoa,as i heard,one night,fourscore ducats.
wishing clocks more swift?
come,there is sauce for it.
there is your crown;and he that wears the crown immortally long guard it yours!
but,o,how much is the good duke deceived in angelo!
how a good yoke of bullocks at stamford fair?
i shall hereafter,my thrice gracious lord,be more myself.
where shall i find you?
the assault that angelo hath made to you,fortune hath conveyed to my understanding;and,but that frailty hath examples for his falling,i should wonder at angelo.
the music there!
no,nor i neither.
loves night is noon.
i slew thy father;callst thou him a child?
can sodden water,a drench for sur-reind jades,their barley-broth,decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?
i hope,sir,i will do as it shall become one that would do reason.
i sin in envying his nobility,and,were i anything but what i am,i would wish me only he.
bow your knees.
well are you welcome to the open air.
here is a touch.
o blood-bespotted neapolitan,outcast of naples,englands bloody scourge!
come,my captain knows you not.
i am glad to see you well,good master robert shallow.
finely put off!
fair,kind,and true,have often lived alone.
couple a gorge!
a savage clamour!
with all my heart,ill gossip at this feast.
i am resolved.
oxford,how haps it in this smooth discourse you told not how henry the sixth hath lost all that which henry the fifth had gotten?
no,my good lord,he speaks the common tongue,which all men speak with him.
o lancaster,i fear thy overthrow more than my bodys parting with my soul!
ill blast his harvest,if your head were laid;for yet i am not looked on in the world.
marry,heaven forbid!
unmannered dog,stand thou,when i command!
not this hour,lieutenant.
look how thou dreamst!
that is he.
come,strike up.
disarm them,and let them question.
speak to me home;mince not the general tongue.
at what was all this laughing?
the foe is merciless and will not pity,for at their hands i have deserved no pity.
heres to your ladyship;and pledge it,madam,for tis to such a thing you cannot show me.
let none disturb us.
you may not deny it.
then our office may,during his power,go sleep.
here,my lord.
farewell,go thou toward home,where i will never come whilst i can shake my sword or hear the drum.
as thou makst me,traitor.
sure,in that i deem you an ill husband,and am glad to have you therein my companion.
i know them both.
not out of your apparel,and yet out of your suit.
snakes,in my heart-blood warmed,that sting my heart!
buckingham,i prithee,pardon me,that i have given no answer all this while;my mind was troubled with deep melancholy.
i told him,of as good as he,so he laughed and let me go.
but hear you,my lord.
third,or fourth,or fifth borough,ill answer him by law.
made you my guardians,my depositaries;but kept a reservation to be followed with such a number.
slid,tis but venturing.
you nimble lightnings,dart your blinding flames into her scornful eyes!
such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.
then,nobly,york;tis for a crown thou fightst.
ay,that there is.
i mean,master slender,what would you with me?
after that things are set in order here,well follow them with all the power we have.
would it were day!
where be the thronging troops that followed thee?
een that you have there.
and you too,gentle hero?
i pray you be acquainted with this maid;she comes to do you good.
well,i will for refuge straight to bristol castle.
you strain too far.
hie you,make haste,for it grows very late.
ist not too heavy?
therein do men from children nothing differ.
let them not speak a word;the guilt is plain;for,by my soul,were there worse end than death,that end upon them should be executed.
the citizens,i am sure,have shown at full their royal minds,as,let em have their rights,they are ever forward in celebration of this day with shows,pageants,and sights of honour.
why,thou whoreson ass,thou mistakst me.
so shall all the couples three ever true in loving be;and the blots of natures hand shall not in their issue stand:never mole,hare-lip,nor scar,nor mark prodigious,such as are despised in nativity,shall upon their children be.
i have seen her do t.
i have brought you from venice.
we are tougher,brother,than you can put us to t.
i therefore apprehend and do attach thee for an abuser of the world,a practiser of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
why do you ask?
come,wrack!
for it is a oman that altogethers acquaintance with mistress anne page;and the letter is to desire and require her to solicit your masters desires to mistress anne page.
nay,he struck so plainly i could too well feel his blows;and withal so doubtfully that i could scarce understand them.
the most exquisite claudio?
it will be an excellent stratagem.
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now?
well fight it out.
all pride is willing pride,and yours is so.
your honour is accounted a merciful man,good my lord.
i kiss thy hand,but not in flattery,caesar;desiring thee that publius cimber may have an immediate freedom of repeal.
theres dolabella sent from caesar.
are you acquainted with the difference that holds this present question in the court?
o,serve me well,and teach yourselves that duty!
the third part,then,is drunk.
assure thee,if i do vow a friendship,ill perform it to the last article.
how has the ass broke the wall,that thou art out of the city?
to whom,with all submission,on my knee,i do bequeath my faithful services and true subjection everlastingly.
tongues spit their duties out,and cold hearts freeze allegiance in them.
nothing,but this is so.
if voluble and sharp discourse be marrd,unkindness blunts it more than marble hard.
dear my brother,let him that was the cause of this have power to take off so much grief from you as he will piece up in himself.
what mean you,caesar?
where is she?
offer me no money,i pray you;that kills my heart.
have with you to see this monster.
thou shalt not bail them.
yes,lion-sick,sick of proud heart.
now,masters,draw.
an it be not four by the day,ill be hangd.
i have no spleen against you,nor injustice for you or any.
why,to puts head in;not to give it away to his daughters,and leave his horns without a case.
wishd,my lord!
here,diomed,keep this sleeve.
you shall advise me in all for cleopatra.
yea,will you come,doll?
in everything but in loving benedick.
who,glazd with crystal gate the glowing roses that flame through water which their hue encloses.
is that a ton of moys?
march,noble lord,into our city with thy banners spread.
o,ho!
but is there no quick recreation granted?
what news,my friend?
no,my lord,not i.
and now remains that we find out the cause of this effect,or rather say,the cause of this defect,for this effect defective comes by cause.
calmly,good laertes.
how now,how now?
and so well leave you to your meditations how to live better.
o theft most base,that we have stoln what we do fear to keep!
what do you here?
i will tell you,sir,if you will give me the hearing.
why,good ladies,this is a service,whereto i am going,greater than any war;it more imports me than all the actions that i have foregone,or futurely can cope.
your will be done.
if he do,the rich shall have more.
i beseech you a word.
the suns a thief and with his great attraction robs the vast sea;the moons an arrant thief,and her pale fire she snatches from the sun;the seas a thief,whose liquid surge resolves the moon into salt tears;the earths a thief,that feeds and breeds by a composture stoln from general excrement.
my lord,prince pericles is fled.
the latter end of his commonwealth forgets the beginning.
we shall be flouting;we cannot hold.
you have not thebook of riddlesabout you,have you?
by gar,ill raise all windsor.
crack natures moulds,all germens spill at once,that make ingrateful man!
nor go neither.
i cannot bring my tongue to such a pace.
songtake,o take those lips away,that so sweetly were forsworn,and those eyes,the break of day,lights that do mislead the morn.
fie,for shame!
now,apemantus,if thou wert not sullen,i would be good to thee.
tell me,apollo,for thy daphnes love,what cressid is,what pandar,and what we?
is there not a double excellency in this?
whats in the brain that ink may character,which hath not figured to thee my true spirit,whats new to speak,what now to register,that may express my love,or thy dear merit?
madam,you must come to your uncle.
adieu,valour;rust,rapier;be still,drum,for your manager is in love.
or had he heard the heavenly harmony which that sweet tongue hath made,he would have dropped his knife,and fell asleep,as cerberus at the thracian poets feet.
stand aside,good pompey.
must i speak now?
i am not warm yet;let us fight again.
but this exceeding posting day and night must wear your spirits low.
thou never hadst renown,nor canst not lose it.
then but forbear your food a little while,whiles,like a doe,i go to find my fawn,and give it food.
my lord calls.
france hath in thee found out a nest of hollow bosoms,which he fills with treacherous crowns;and three corrupted men,one,richard earl of cambridge,and the second,henry lord scroop of masham,and the third,sir thomas grey,knight of northumberland,have,for the gilt of france,o guilt indeed!
sir,as i think.
he is welcome hither.
o traitors,murderers!
i take my leave before i have begun,for sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
i would not by my will have troubled you,but since you make your pleasure of your pains,i will no further chide you.
the bishop hath a kindly gird.
your grant or your denial shall be mine.
blest figs end!
noble she was,and thought i stood engagd;but when i had subscribd to mine own fortune,and informd her fully i could not answer in that course of honour as she had made the overture,she ceasd,in heavy satisfaction,and would never receive the ring again.
this morning papers of state he sent me to peruse,as i required;and wot you what i found thereon my conscience,put unwittingly?
i am unfit for state and majesty.
these are but wild and whirling words,my lord.
what sayst thou to her?
edwards seven sons,whereof thyself art one,were as seven vials of his sacred blood,or seven fair branches springing from one root.
a roman,who had not now been drooping here if seconds had answerd him.
i would they could.
pray,innocent,and beware the foul fiend.
i wish not so;unless it had been the fall of an ass,which is no great hurt.
hence,and bestow your luggage where you found it.
i do not think it good.
andronicus,stain not thy tomb with blood.
sweet earl,divorce not wisdom from your honour.
i know thee,roderigo.
hippolyta,i see one eye of yours conceives a tear,the which it will deliver.
madam,there is alighted at your gate a young venetian,one that comes before to signify th approaching of his lord,from whom he bringeth sensible regreets;to wit(besides commends and courteous breath)gifts of rich value;yet i have not seen so likely an ambassador of love.
at what hour tomorrow shall i attend your lordship?
i long to have this young one made a christian.
despair and die!
je quand sur le possession de france,et quand vous avez le possession de moi,let me see,what then?
welcome,high prince,the mighty duke of york!
i tell you yet again,banquos buried;he cannot come out ons grave.
well,god-a-mercy.
was ever man so proud as is this martius?
vouchsafe a word,young sister,but one word.
i do,my lord,but long i cannot stay there.
and,prithee,lead me in.
o jupiter!
raised only that the weaker sort may wish good martius home again.
angels are bright still,though the brightest fell:though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,yet grace must still look so.
swellst thou,proud heart?
could not this make thee know the hate i bare thee made me leave thee so?
good my lord,to come thus was i not constrained,but did it on my free will.
here,sir;as foolish as i was before.
tis all as easy falsely to take away a life true made as to put metal in restrained means to make a false one.
away from me,and let me hear no more!
what this,you gods?
the business of the state does him offence,and he does chide with you.
a sword and armour?
she must needs go in;her father will be angry.
true,and they are to meddle with none but the princes subjects.
or an old lion,or a lovers lute.
he,being remiss,most generous,and free from all contriving,will not peruse the foils;so that with ease,or with a little shuffling,you may choose a sword unbated,and in a pass of practice,requite him for your father.
a vice of kings,a cutpurse of the empire and the rule,that from a shelf the precious diadem stole and put it in his pocket!
a conduit,girl?
in practice let us put it presently.
i come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
most noble caesar!
am i not wise?
alcibiades,thou art a soldier,therefore seldom rich.
give me your hands.
both take and give.
o my good lord,i have been your tenant,and your fathers tenant these fourscore years.
look,here comes helena.
to fight on edwards party for the crown;and for his meed,poor lord,he is mewed up.
and,richard,do not frown upon my faults,for i will henceforth be no more unconstant.
why,thats my spirit!
re-enter bawd.
is it within reason and compass?
ay,ay,the cords.
open the gates;heres gloucester that would enter.
mine ear must pluck it thence.
but whats the matter,clarence?
yet through both i see some sparks of better hope,which elder years may happily bring forth.
have mercy,jesu!
widow dido!
i would they had brokes neck.
i promisd to enquire carefully about a schoolmaster for the fair bianca;and by good fortune i have lighted well on this young man;for learning and behaviour fit for her turn,well read in poetry and other books,good ones,i warrant ye.
she did so;well,sir?
our size of sorrow,proportioned to our cause,must be as great as that which makes it.
the trick of that voice i do well remember:ist not the king?
had you not been their father,these white flakes did challenge pity of them.
bid himah,what?
master,i have gone through for this piece,you see:if you like her,so;if not,i have lost my earnest.
he shall answer it.
give him a little earth for charity.
sweet,good night.
but on this day let seamen fear no wrack;no bargains break that are not this day made;this day,all things begun come to ill end,yea,faith itself to hollow falsehood change!
i wish you joy o th worm.
if you be taen,we then should see the bottom of all our fortunes;but if we haply scape,as well we may,if not through your neglect,we shall to london get,where you are loved and where this breach now in our fortunes made may readily be stopped.
he did appoint so.
as fast locked up in sleep as guiltless labour when it lies starkly in the travellers bones.
why,wilt thou tourney for the lady?
ay,too gentle.
at last i spied his eyes,and methought he had made two holes in the ale-wifes new petticoat and so peeped through.
the sign of the castle inn is displayed.
all is but toys:renown and grace is dead;the wine of life is drawn,and the mere lees is left this vault to brag of.
bear witness,heaven,i have my wish for ever.
one touch of nature makes the whole world kin that all with one consent praise new-born gauds,though they are made and moulded of things past,and give to dust that is a little gilt more laud than gilt oer-dusted.
but yet,poor claudio!
for anjou,and fair touraine,maine,poitiers,and all that we upon this side the sea except this city now by us besiegd find liable to our crown and dignity,shall gild her bridal bed,and make her rich in titles,honours,and promotions,as she in beauty,education,blood,holds hand with any princess of the world.
whos there,i th other devils name?
ay;whats the matter?
suffert,and live with such as cannot rule nor ever will be ruled.
what say you,simon catling?
so do you,good master doctor.
and all for nothing!
not in deed,madam,for i can do nothing but what indeed is honest to be done.
my lord,i fear,has forgot britain.
come now,your promise.
if you swear still,your recompense is still that i regard it not.
in that ill war with you.
stay yet another day,thou trusty welshman.
some mollification for your giant,sweet lady.
good morrow,friends.
he;i know him.
this is the man should do the bloody deed.
o,then,beware:those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves;omission to do what is necessary seals a commission to a blank of danger;and danger,like an ague,subtly taints even then when they sit idly in the sun.
whither away,sir john fastolf,in such haste?
bruise me with scorn,confound me with a flout,thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance,cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit,and i will wish thee never more to dance,nor never more in russian habit wait.
what a plague have i to do with a buff jerkin?
thou art always figuring diseases in me,but thou art full of error;i am sound.
he is very often like a knight;and generally,in all shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore to thirteen,this spirit walks in.
itches,blains,sow all th athenian bosoms,and their crop be general leprosy!
drive these men away,and i will sit as quiet as a lamb;i will not stir,nor wince,nor speak a word,nor look upon the iron angerly.
you must not put another scandal on him,that he is open to incontinency;thats not my meaning:but breathe his faults so quaintly that they may seem the taints of liberty;the flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,a savageness in unreclaimed blood,of general assault.
what must i do?
whats that?
ist possible?
o,peace,peace,peace!
prosper you,sweet sir!
by the fire that quickens nilus slime,i go from hence thy soldier,servant,making peace or war as thou affects.
and me too,even when you please,of life.
bring me a constant woman to her husband,one that neer dreamed a joy beyond his pleasure,and to that woman,when she has done most,yet will i add an honour:a great patience.
who is the second that presents himself?
fill thy purse with money.
i am weary of you.
away,my thetis!
princes and noble lords,what answer shall i make to this base man?
read it instantly.
pray you sit by us,and tell s a tale.
my lord,youll bear us company?
o,preposterous and frantic outrage,end thy damned spleen,or let me die,to look on earth no more.
is it not strange,canidius,that from tarentum and brundusium he could so quickly cut the ionian sea and take in toryne?
if you would conjure in her,you must make a circle;if conjure up love in her in his true likeness,he must appear naked and blind.
wilt thou ever be a foul-mouthd and calumnious knave?
fair cousin,you debase your princely knee to make the base earth proud with kissing it.
these sentences to sugar or to gall,being strong on both sides,are equivocal:but words are words;i never yet did hear that the bruisd heart was pierced through the ear.
do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty only for praise sake,when they strive to be lords oer their lords?
i have cursd them without cause.
didst thou never see thy masters father,vincentio?
for what reason?
i gave ye power as he was a councillor to try him,not as a groom.
sir,i shall not be slack;in sign whereof,please ye we may contrive this afternoon,and quaff carouses to our mistress health;and do as adversaries do in law,strive mightily,but eat and drink as friends.
talk not of master launcelet,father,for the young gentleman,according to fates and destinies,and such odd sayings,the sisters three and such branches of learning,is indeed deceased,or,as you would say in plain terms,gone to heaven.
but do not so,i love thee in such sort,as thou being mine,mine is thy good report.
is here all?
i love thee not,therefore pursue me not.
we,hermia,like two artificial gods,have with our needles created both one flower,both on one sampler,sitting on one cushion,both warbling of one song,both in one key,as if our hands,our sides,voices,and minds,had been incorporate.
melodious birds sing madrigals whenas i sat in pabylon and a thousand vagram posies.
very good,my lord.
would i might never oertake pursued success,but i do feel,by the rebound of yours,a grief that smites my very heart at root.
no,i hear not your honest friend.
marry,sir,because silver hath a sweet sound.
sons,peace!
vouch with me,heaven,i therefore beg it not to please the palate of my appetite,nor to comply with heat,the young affects in me defunct,and proper satisfaction,but to be free and bounteous to her mind.
and how doth thy master,bardolph?
then,dear countryman,bring in thy ranks but leave without thy rage;spare thy athenian cradle and those kin which in the bluster of thy wrath must fall with those that have offended.
een when you will.
do you know me,sir?
beg when that is spent?
what have you done?
nay,but hear you,goodman delver,give me leave.
no,no,cousin,i will no more be hidden,nor put off this great adventure to a second trial;i know your cunning and i know your cause.
by this scimitar that slew the sophy and a persian prince,that won three fields of sultan solyman,i would oerstare the sternest eyes that look,outbrave the heart most daring on the earth,pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear,yea,mock the lion when he roars for prey,to win thee,lady.
come hither,mariana.
so have i heard,and do in part believe it.
was ever king that joyed an earthly throne and could command no more content than i?
i have named him oft.
your friend and i have chanced to name you here,upon the old business.
such things become the hatch and brood of time;and by the necessary form of this king richard might create a perfect guess that great northumberland,then false to him,would of that seed grow to a greater falseness,which should not find a ground to root upon,unless on you.
fair creature,killd too soon by deaths sharp sting!
did not the prophet say that before ascension-day at noon my crown i should give off?
it is certain,corporal,that he is married to nell quickly;and certainly she did you wrong,for you were troth-plight to her.
if a christian wrong a jew,what should his sufferance be by christian example?
i knew he was not in his perfect wits.
come,wife,lets in,and learn to govern better;for yet may england curse my wretched reign.
now to our sports again.
they know not what they do.
he is afeard to come.
his face,though full of cares,yet showed content;onward to troy with the blunt swains he goes,so mild,that patience seemed to scorn his woes.
he promised to meet me two hours since,and he was ever precise in promise-keeping.
i pray you,give her air.
if he do fear god,a must necessarily keep peace:if he break the peace,he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling.
thou dost give me flattering busses.
such an exploit have i in hand,ligarius,had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
my lord,willt please you to fall to?
what wouldst thou now?
give me thy hand:i am sorry i beat thee;but while thou livst,keep a good tongue in thy head.
no matter vor your foins.
but that it would be double-dealing,sir,i would you could make it another.
why,a thing to thank god on.
was not your husband in margarets battle at saint albans slain?
whatsoever you may hear to the contrary,let claudio be executed by four of the clock,and in the afternoon,barnardine.
you thief of love!
the fiend is rough,and will not be roughly used.
why,then,women are more valiant that stay at home,if bearing carry it,and the ass more captain than the lion,the felon loaden with irons wiser than the judge,if wisdom be in suffering.
are not these large enough?
i read in s looks matter against me,and his eye reviled me as his abject object.
have i not pawnd to you my majesty?
hail,king,for so thou art.
my loving lord,i take my leave of you.
you are sent for to the capitol.
your master,pindarus,in his own change,or by ill officers,hath given me some worthy cause to wish things done,undone:but,if he be at hand,i shall be satisfied.
pox ont,ill not meddle with him.
villain,thy own hand yields thy deaths instrument.
what is this?
would he were knockd i th head!
quarrel,sir?
there is no remedy,sir,but you must die.
i am no feed post,lady;keep your purse;my master,not myself,lacks recompense.
cousin of buckingham,and sage grave men,since you will buckle fortune on my back,to bear her burden,wheer i will or no,i must have patience to endure the load.
o,sir,you must;and therefore i beseech you look forward on the journey you shall go.
i did;i saw him dead,breathless and bleeding on the ground.
and i unto the sea from whence i came.
i care not.
will you thus break your faith?
tis a fearful odds.
tis proper i obey him,but not now.
i am hers:but,o,how oddly will it sound that i must ask my child forgiveness!
i am all these three.
and this shall free thee from this present shame,if no inconstant toy nor womanish fear abate thy valour in the acting it.
he is,my lord,an hour ago.
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts shall be to him shortly as acerb as the coloquintida.
yet i can give you inkling of an ensuing evil,if it fall,greater than this.
thou speakst it falsely,as i love mine honour,and makst conjectural fears to come into me which i would fain shut out.
tis the dukes,and,to say true,i stole it.
would you buy her,that you enquire after her?
and i.
he is the general challenger.
come,ladies,go to meet at london londons king in woe.
scape being drunk for want of wine.
thy fathers moral parts mayst thou inherit too!
if she be furnishd with a mind so rare,she is alone th arabian bird,and i have lost the wager.
oh ho!
let this dissension first be tried by fight,and then your highness shall command a peace.
where is thy master,dromio?
which way would hector have it?
a fistula,my lord.
can he be there in person?
time hath,my lord,a wallet at his back,wherein he puts alms for oblivion,a great-sizd monster of ingratitudes.
lurk,lurk.
the unborn event i do commend to your content:only i carry winged time post on the lame feet of my rhyme;which never could i so convey,unless your thoughts went on my way.
here,thou incestuous,murderous,damned dane,drink off this potion.
come,go with me apart,i will withdraw to furnish me with some swift means of death for the fair devil.
did my commission bid ye so far forget yourselves?
to the choleric fisting of every rogue thy ear is liable,thy food is such as hath been belchd on by infected lungs.
i know it well,sir.
and yet i know not how to get the crown,for many lives stand between me and home;and i,like one lost in a thorny wood,that rents the thorns,and is rent with the thorns,seeking a way,and straying from the way,not knowing how to find the open air,but toiling desperately to find it out,torment myself to catch the english crown.
i fear it much;and i do fear besides that i shall lose distinction in my joys;as doth a battle,when they charge on heaps the enemy flying.
how canst thou make me satisfaction?
ay,sir,i have them at my fingers ends:marry,now i let go your hand,i am barren.
our breach of duty this way is business of estate,in which we come to know your royal pleasure.
see,where he lies inhearsed in the arms of the most bloody nurser of his harms.
and be these juggling fiends no more believd,that palter with us in a double sense;that keep the word of promise to our ear,and break it to our hope!
if i had been married to him,for all he was in womans apparel,i would not have had him.
sir,i will eat no meat;ill not drink,sir;if idle talk will once be necessary,ill not sleep neither.
a wilderness is populous enough,so suffolk had thy heavenly company;for where thou art,there is the world itself,with every several pleasure in the world;and where thou art not,desolation.
where were you bred,you know it not?
if not the face of men,the sufferance of our souls,the times abuse if these be motives weak,break off betimes,and every man hence to his idle bed.
item,if any man be seen to talk with a woman within the term of three years,he shall endure such public shame as the rest of the court can possibly devise.
thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet,or a hat,or a cloak,is nothing to a man.
for my voice,i have lost it with halloing and singing of anthems.
do as i bid thee,or rather do thy pleasure;above the rest,be gone.
how many months do you desire?
if it should be told,the repetition cannot make it less;for more it is than i can well express,and that deep torture may be called a hell,when more is felt than one hath power to tell.
what thou wilt,thou rather shalt enforce it with thy smile than hew to t with thy sword.
i knew him,and i know him;so i leave him to him that made him proud,the pope.
yes,truly;i speak not as desiring more,but rather wishing a more strict restraint upon the sisterhood,the votarists of saint clare.
i have five hundred crowns,the thrifty hire i saved under your father,which i did store to be my foster-nurse,when service should in my old limbs lie lame,and unregarded age in corners thrown.
where is the foolish knave i sent before?
go home,berowne.
my thoughts aim at a further matter;i stay not for the love of edward,but the crown.
puff in thy teeth,most recreant coward base!
i am too blunt and saucy:heres my knee.
no,sir.
what,you mean my face?
well run,thisbe.
take my prayers with you.
the bird that hath been limed in a bush with trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;and i,the hapless male to one sweet bird,have now the fatal object in my eye where my poor young was limed,was caught,and killed.
poisond,ill fare;dead,forsook,cast off,and none of you will bid the winter come to thrust his icy fingers in my maw,nor let my kingdoms rivers take their course through my burnd bosom,nor entreat the north to make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips and comfort me with cold.
we have strict statutes and most biting laws,the needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds,which for this fourteen years we have let slip,even like an oergrown lion in a cave that goes not out to prey.
there is a frenchman his companion,one an eminent monsieur that,it seems,much loves a gallian girl at home.
peace,rude sounds!
look therefore,lewis,that by this league and marriage thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour;for though usurpers sway the rule awhile,yet heavens are just,and time suppresseth wrongs.
but love hate on for now i know thy mind,those that can see thou lovst,and i am blind.
my vow was breath,and breath a vapour is;then,thou fair sun,that on this earth doth shine,exhale this vapour vow;in thee it is;if broken then,it is no fault of mine.
who hath got the right anne?
there must be conclusions.
and till she come,as truly as to heaven i do confess the vices of my blood,so justly to your grave ears ill present how i did thrive in this fair ladys love,and she in mine.
diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth in strange eruptions;oft the teeming earth is with a kind of colic pinchd and vexd by the imprisoning of unruly wind within her womb,which for enlargement striving,shakes the old beldam earth,and topples down steeples and moss-grown towers.
good madam,if by me youll be advised,lets mock them still,as well known as disguised.
it is your husband mocked you with a husband.
een he that led you to this banquet shall taste to you all.
for thou art a way,i think,to liberty.
now forth,lord constable and princes all,and quickly bring us word of englands fall.
fly,father,fly,for all your friends are fled,and warwick rages like a chafed bull.
ay,noble father,if our words will serve.
come,friar francis,be brief:only to the plain form of marriage,and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards.
madman,thou errest.
we but offend him.
or what fond beggar,but to touch the crown,would with the sceptre straight be strucken down?
noble lady,i am sorry my integrity should breed and service to his majesty and you so deep suspicion,where all faith was meant.
o thou othello,that wert once so good,falln in the practice of a damned slave,what shall be said to thee?
tis gold which buys admittance(oft it doth)yea,and makes dianas rangers false themselves,yield up their deer to th stand o th stealer;and tis gold which makes the true man killd and saves the thief;nay,sometime hangs both thief and true man.
not much commendation to them?
she discourses,she carves,she gives the leer of invitation.
vent my folly!
up to yond hill,your legs are young;ill tread these flats.
that he can hither come so soon,is by your fancys thankful doom.
swear priests and cowards,and men cautelous,old feeble carrions,and such suffering souls that welcome wrongs;unto bad causes swear such creatures as men doubt;but do not stain the even virtue of our enterprise,nor th insuppressive mettle of our spirits,to think that or our cause or our performance did need an oath;when every drop of blood that every roman bears,and nobly bears,is guilty of a several bastardy,if he do break the smallest particle of any promise that hath passd from him.
but he at that time over-fond of the shepherds daughter(so he then took her to be),who began to be much sea-sick,and himself little better,extremity of weather continuing,this mystery remained undiscoverd.
had i before known this young man his son,i should have given him tears unto entreaties ere he should thus have ventured.
yet,ere we put ourselves in arms,dispatch we the business we have talked of.
if you call me jephthah,my lord,i have a daughter that i love passing well.
the mayor is here at hand.
then like a melancholy malcontent,he vails his tail that like a falling plume,cool shadow to his melting buttock lent:he stamps,and bites the poor flies in his fume.
as fair as day.
as priam him did cherish,so did i tarquin;so my troy did perish.
imagine pericles arrived at tyre,welcomed and settled to his own desire.
come on,and bid us welcome to your sheep-shearing,as your good flock shall prosper.
hell wrest the sense and hold us here all day.
now,justice on the doers!
faith,as you say,theres small choice in rotten apples.
wheres this girl?
i cannot tell;i make it breed as fast.
sir john,you shall not be excused.
his meaning is good.
o that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks and make but an interior survey of your good selves!
but let me conjure you,by the rights of our fellowship,by the consonancy of our youth,by the obligation of our ever-preserved love,and by what more dear a better proposer could charge you withal,be even and direct with me,whether you were sent for or no.
away with her and waft her hence to france.
methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
and yet this time removed was summers time,the teeming autumn big with rich increase,bearing the wanton burden of the prime,like widowed wombs after their lords decease:yet this abundant issue seemed to me but hope of orphans,and unfathered fruit,for summer and his pleasures wait on thee,and thou away,the very birds are mute.
there is cold meat i th cave;well browse on that whilst what we have killd be cookd.
at least well die with harness on our back.
let me have your good will.
this is the way to julius caesars ill-erected tower,to whose flint bosom my condemned lord is doomed a prisoner by proud bolingbroke.
and theres for twitting me with perjury.
what did thy song bode,lady?
stand aside.
i,in my condition,shall better speak of you than you deserve.
why is time such a niggard of hair,being,as it is,so plentiful an excrement?
this love will undo us all.
madam,here comes my lord.
sir,i am beholding to you for your sweet music this last night:i do protest my ears were never better fed with such delightful pleasing harmony.
what does he mean?
why,you are so fat,sir john,that you must needs be out of all compass,out of all reasonable compass,sir john.
pardon is all the suit i have in hand.
my dearest lord,blessed to be most accursed,rich only to be wretched,thy great fortunes are made thy chief afflictions.
play fast and loose with faith?
and now this pale swan in her watry nest begins the sad dirge of her certain ending:few words,quoth she,shall fit the trespass best,where no excuse can give the fault amending.
most wisely hath ulysses here discoverd the fever whereof all our power is sick.
my name is corporal nym.
how may i deserve it,that am a poor and humble subject to you?
good lord,for alliance!
what hence?
what,ostler!
it is a quarrel most unnatural,to be revenged on him that loveth thee.
ay,what else?
were my worth greater,my duty would show greater;meantime,as it is,it is bound to your lordship,to whom i wish long life,still lengthened with all happiness.
go you to angelo;answer his requiring with a plausible obedience;agree with his demands to the point.
i bruised my shin th other day with playing at sword and dagger with a master of fencethree veneys for a dish of stewed prunesand,by my troth,i cannot abide the smell of hot meat since.
loves her by the foot.
i cannot tell;long is it since i saw him,but time hath nothing blurrd those lines of favour which then he wore;the snatches in his voice,and burst of speaking,were as his.
thus conscience does make cowards of us all,and thus the native hue of resolution is sicklied oer with the pale cast of thought,and enterprises of great pith and moment,with this regard their currents turn awry and lose the name of action.
as thart a man,give me the cup.
if i die for it,as no less is threatened me,the king my old master must be relieved.
sir,by your leave.
who calls on hamlet?
the ship is here put in,a veronessa;michael cassio,lieutenant to the warlike moor othello,is come on shore;the moor himself at sea,and is in full commission here for cyprus.
for the latter end of his name.
answer your master,be not afraid.
o woeful sympathy!
no,not a syllable.
thou art not what thou seemst.
well,suffolk,thou shalt not see me blush,nor change my countenance for this arrest.
come,try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
no longer on saint denis will we cry,but joan la pucelle shall be frances saint.
but what says jupiter,i ask thee?
a woman impudent and mannish grown is not more loathd than an effeminate man in time of action.
are not you sir john falstaff?
but soft,i pray you,did king richard then proclaim my brother edmund mortimer heir to the crown?
make up to clifton.
here he comes.
and so shall you,if happy englands royal king be free.
we wept after her hearse,and yet we mourn.
prithee be cheerful.
rob me the exchequer the first thing thou dost,and do it with unwashed hands too.
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
no,sir john,you do not know me,sir john.
very well,go to,i cannot go to,man,nor tis not very well.
goneril,our eldest born,speak first.
where is it,jack,where is it?
you have no stomach,signior:fare you well.
come,mistress,you must tells another tale.
then whither he goes,thither let me go.
no,indeed,my lord.
the fairest is confession.
now you have taken the pains to set it together,take it for your pains.
in the county of gloucester,justice of peace and coram.
the gods forbid!
i do obey thee till i give thee bail.
call her divine.
i think the boy hath grace in him;he blushes.
have you scored me?
home-keeping youth have ever homely wits.
died he not in his bed?
wear the garland with joy that you have won.
i say,amen,gonzalo!
and now i do bethink me,it was she first told me thou wast mad;then camst in smiling,and in such forms which here were presupposd upon thee in the letter.
rightly reasoned,and in his own division;and,by my troth,theres one meaning well suited.
there with fantastic garlands did she make of crow-flowers,nettles,daisies,and long purples,that liberal shepherds give a grosser name,but our cold maids do dead mens fingers call them.
tis no matter if i do halt;i have the wars for my colour,and my pension shall seem the more reasonable.
ay,thats the way.
a gentleman.
i mean to take possession of my right.
i am antony yet.
praise in departing.
wheres my spaniel troilus?
as well as i can,madam.
nay,by my faith,i think you are more beholding to the night than to fern-seed for your walking invisible.
the power of caesar,and his power unto octavia.
but no more of that now;so soon as the court hurry is over,we will have an end of it.
i will fetch my gold and have our two wagers recorded.
come,you virtuous ass,you bashful fool,must you be blushing?
inspired merit so by breath is barrd.
old signior,walk aside with me:i have studied eight or nine wise words to speak to you,which these hobby-horses must not hear.
and she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin.
for the letter that begins them all,h.
woe to that land thats governed by a child.
ill give you gold.
and will they so?
how does your ladyship like it?
what think you of this fool,malvolio?
i lack some of thy instinct.
tis most just that thou turn rascal;hadst thou wealth again,rascals should havet.
i will conster to them whence you come;who you are and what you would are out of my welkin.
have i sought every country far and near,and,now it is my chance to find thee out,must i behold thy timeless cruel death?
will you not go the way of womankind?
why,he hacked it with his dagger,and said he would swear truth out of england but he would make you believe it was done in fight,and persuaded us to do the like.
for thy conceit is soaking,will draw in more than the common blocks.
how bravely may he bear himself to win her if he be noble arcite,thousand ways!
if we be conquered,let men conquer us,and not these bastard bretons,whom our fathers have in their own land beaten,bobbed,and thumped,and in record left them the heirs of shame.
my lord,you do not well in obstinacy to cavil in the course of this contract.
o most divine kate!
well-sailing ships and bounteous winds have brought this king to tarsus,think his pilot thought;so with his steerage shall your thoughts go on,to fetch his daughter home,who first is gone.
the sun shines hot,and,if we use delay,cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay.
lance,away,away!
what needs more words.
that i beheld.
by the world,i would not care a pin if the other three were in.
twice have the trumpets sounded.
nor in a state of life.
yes,verily and in truth you shall take it;or i have another leek in my pocket,which you shall eat.
my tears shall wipe away these bloody marks,and no more words till they have flowed their fill.
hold,my hand:be factious for redress of all these griefs,and i will set this foot of mine as far as who goes farthest.
methinks your looks are sad,your cheer appalld.
worthy timon of none but such as you,and you of timon.
i am of your fear for that.
i do not think thou canst,for then thou wast not out three years old.
good morrow to your worship.
bleed,bleed,poor country!
now,sir,hast thou cried her through the market?
never did i hear such gallant chiding;for,besides the groves,the skies,the fountains,every region near seemd all one mutual cry.
to tell you plain,i had rather lie in prison.
a rendezvous,a home to fly unto,if that the devil and mischance look big upon the maidenhead of our affairs.
murder,murder!
for with the nightly linen that she wears he pens her piteous clamours in her head,cooling his hot face in the chastest tears that ever modest eyes with sorrow shed.
ill give her.
where is lucentio?
if you were civil,and knew courtesy,you would not do me thus much injury.
so did it mine;and a most instant tetter barkd about,most lazar-like,with vile and loathsome crust all my smooth body.
could he say less?
if it were yours by none of all these ways,how could you give it him?
grey,scroop.
he that runs fastest gets the ring.
good my lord,vouchsafe me a word with you.
tomorrow shall we visit you again.
thou hast the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the ship-tire,the tire-valiant,or any tire of venetian admittance.
i have seen two such sights,by sea and by land!
if i do not take pity of her,i am a villain;if i do not love her,i am a jew.
your brother the bastard is fled from messina:you have,among you,killed a sweet and innocent lady.
i have sat here all day.
nay,present your hand:when she was young you wood her;now in age is she become the suitor?
in love,the heavens themselves do guide the state.
till then sit still,my soul:foul deeds will rise,though all the earth oerwhelm them,to mens eyes.
now swallow down that lie.
the little love-god lying once asleep,laid by his side his heart-inflaming brand,whilst many nymphs that vowed chaste life to keep,came tripping by,but in her maiden hand,the fairest votary took up that fire,which many legions of true hearts had warmed,and so the general of hot desire,was sleeping by a virgin hand disarmed.
i would not deny you;but,by this good day,i yield upon great persuasion,and partly to save your life,for i was told you were in a consumption.
tis not needed yet.
they will not sit till you come.
that which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet;so romeo would,were he not romeo calld,retain that dear perfection which he owes without that title.
for taket of my soul,my lord leans wondrously to discontent.
this is strange.
camillo,not for bohemia,nor the pomp that may be thereat gleand;for all the sun sees or the close earth wombs,or the profound seas hides in unknown fathoms,will i break my oath to this my fair belovd.
do thou entreat her show a womans pity.
five thousand crowns,my lord.
shes such a one,that,were i well assured came of a gentle kind and noble stock,id wish no better choice,and think me rarely wed.
what wilt thou do for her?
how now!
here is neither cheer,sir,nor welcome.
thy brothers love,our duty,and thy faults,provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
o god,she comes.
and doth beget new courage in our breasts.
you strike my people;and your disorderd rabble make servants of their betters.
bring up the brown bills.
neither the king,nor he that loves him best,the proudest he that holds up lancaster,dares stir a wing if warwick shake his bells.
how angel-like he sings!
sir,for my thoughts,you have them ill to friend till your deeds gain them;fairer prove your honour than in my thought it lies!
so tis.
what think you they portend?
he that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven,and fire us hence like foxes.
then shall we have a match.
love bade me swear,and love bids me forswear.
not love at all!
a league from epidamnum had we saild before the always-wind-obeying deep gave any tragic instance of our harm;but longer did we not retain much hope;for what obscured light the heavens did grant did but convey unto our fearful minds a doubtful warrant of immediate death,which though myself would gladly have embracd,yet the incessant weepings of my wife,weeping before for what she saw must come,and piteous plainings of the pretty babes,that mournd for fashion,ignorant what to fear,forcd me to seek delays for them and me.
heres some good pastime toward:that wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
march away.
wilt thou at ninnys tomb meet me straightway?
britain is a world by itself,and we will nothing pay for wearing our own noses.
brutus is wise,and,were he not in health,he would embrace the means to come by it.
where is duncans body?
not to a rage:patience and sorrow strove who should express her goodliest.
affrighted much,i did in time collect myself and thought this was so,and no slumber.
i will not flatter her.
if he be slain,say ay;or if not,no.
now,licio,to you.
the state hath another,his wife another,and i think theres one at home for you.
sweet york,be patient.
i prithee take thy fingers from my throat;for though i am not splenative and rash,yet have i in me something dangerous,which let thy wiseness fear.
first,of my word;therefore play,music!
lords appellants,your differences shall all rest under gage till we assign you to your days of trial.
peace be with you.
what,is there none of pygmalions images,newly made woman,to be had now,for putting the hand in the pocket and extracting it clutched?
o vain petitioner!
o,this is trim!
who are the votaries,my loving lords,that are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke?
whats the quarrel?
count claudio,when mean you to go to church?
the son and heir of old tiberio.
your message done,hie home unto my chamber,where thou shalt find me sad and solitary.
all fortune to the good simonides!
i dare not know,my lord.
all goodness is poison to thy stomach.
that we have been familiar,ingrate forgetfulness shall poison rather than pity note how much.
what is it?
tis but a man gone.
fairy over hill,over dale,thorough bush,thorough brier,over park,over pale,thorough flood,thorough fire,i do wander everywhere,swifter than the moons sphere;and i serve the fairy queen,to dew her orbs upon the green.
your commendations,madam,get from her tears.
arms,arms!
well,somewhat we must do.
i do love cassio well and would do much to cure him of this evil.
tell me,gentle friend,how went he under him?
whats here?
and when goes hence?
i durst have denied that before you were so choleric.
all manner of men assembled here in arms this day against gods peace and the kings,we charge and command you,in his highness name,to repair to your several dwelling-places;and not to wear,handle,or use any sword,weapon,or dagger,henceforward,upon pain of death.
and here ill be,and there ill be,for our town,and here again,and there again.
he will spend his mouth and promise,like brabbler the hound;but when he performs,astronomers foretell it:it is prodigious,there will come some change;the sun borrows of the moon when diomed keeps his word.
ill help you,sir toby,because well be dressed together.
that in his reprieve,longer or shorter,he may be so fitted that his soul sicken not.
friar,it cannot be.
my lord,i neither can nor will deny but that i know them.
vouchsafe it then.
ay,so the bishop be not overborne.
and now who knows but you,lorenzo,whether i am yours?
unfit to live or die.
is not angiers lost?
why,love forswore me in my mothers womb,and,for i should not deal in her soft laws,she did corrupt frail nature with some bribe to shrink mine arm up like a withered shrub;to make an envious mountain on my back,where sits deformity to mock my body;to shape my legs of an unequal size;to disproportion me in every part,like to a chaos,or an unlicked bear-whelp that carries no impression like the dam.
to be called into a huge sphere,and not to be seen to move in t,are the holes where eyes should be,which pitifully disaster the cheeks.
)with the moor,sayst thou?
therefore let our alliance be combind,our best friends made,our means stretchd;and let us presently go sit in council,how covert matters may be best disclosd,and open perils surest answered.
i am as fair now as i was erewhile.
what plain proceeding is more plain than this?
the spaniard,tied by blood and favour to her,must now confess,if they have any goodness,the trial just and noble.
then make a ring about the corpse of caesar,and let me show you him that made the will.
mistress,what cheer?
i confess it is my shame to be so fond,but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
witness this wretched stump,witness these crimson lines;witness these trenches made by grief and care;witness the tiring day and heavy night;witness all sorrow that i know thee well for our proud empress,mighty tamora.
well,heres my comfort.
were beauty under twenty locks kept fast,yet love breaks through,and picks them all at last.
till you compound whose right is worthiest,we for the worthiest hold the right from both.
my lord?
before i enterd here i calld,and thought to have beggd or bought what i have took.
whats thy name?
with what i get,i mean;and so do they.
yet this imperceiverant thing loves him in my despite.
and,i pray,how does good mistress anne?
then shalt thou see the dew-bedabbled wretch turn,and return,indenting with the way,each envious briar his weary legs do scratch,each shadow makes him stop,each murmur stay:for misery is trodden on by many,and being low never relievd by any.
doth your lordship call?
and so,sir,ill commend you to my master.
caphis,ho!
sweet hearts,we shall be rich ere we depart,if fairings come thus plentifully in.
sir thurio borrows his wit from your ladyships looks,and spends what he borrows kindly in your company.
i must another way,to fetch a ladder by the which your love must climb a birds nest soon when it is dark.
what is pyramusa lover,or a tyrant?
i feelt upon my bones.
did you and he consent in cassios death?
my lord,this is a poor mad soul,and she says up and down the town that her eldest son is like you.
nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
my lords,what to your wisdoms seemeth best do,or undo,as if ourself were here.
to clear this spot by death,at least i give a badge of fame to slanders livery,a dying life to living infamy.
short summers lightly have a forward spring.
thou hast it now,king,cawdor,glamis,all,as the weird women promisd;and,i fear,thou playdst most foully fort;yet it was said it should not stand in thy posterity;but that myself should be the root and father of many kings.
and lessened be that small,god,i beseech him!
no abuse,ned,i th world,honest ned,none.
now we speak upon our cue,and our voice is imperial.
the king,the king!
jupiter became a bull and bellowd;the green neptune a ram and bleated;and the fire-robd god,golden apollo,a poor humble swain,as i seem now.
he will be the ninth worthy.
why stands he so perplexd?
afore me,it is so very very late that we may call it early by and by.
this is the letter he spoke of,which approves him an intelligent party to the advantages of france.
for i am that way going to temptation,where prayers cross.
well,sir,get you in.
who could be out,being before his beloved mistress?
i had myself notice of my brothers purpose herein,and have by underhand means laboured to dissuade him from it;but he is resolute.
faith,sir,we were carousing till the second cock;and drink,sir,is a great provoker of three things.
our praises are our wages.
o jesu,he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as ever i see!
a womans general;what should we fear?
combine together gainst the enemy;for these domestic and particular broils are not the question here.
and you by land.
i thank you,sir.
had you your letters from your wife,my lord?
so,farewell,talbot;ill no longer trust thee.
dear lad,believe it;for they shall yet belie thy happy years,that say thou art a man:dianas lip is not more smooth and rubious;thy small pipe is as the maidens organ,shrill and sound,and all is semblative a womans part.
farewell,father.
well have you argued,sir;and,for your pains,of capital treason we arrest you here.
here shall he see no enemy but winter and rough weather.
that have i told my love in glory of my kinsman hercules.
then,isabel,live chaste,and,brother,die.
kinsmen,shoot all your shafts into the court.
my best way is to creep under his gaberdine;there is no other shelter hereabout:misery acquaints a man with strange bed-fellows.
tis pity whats pity?
please you,madam.
how,sir?
fie,fie,you counterfeit,you puppet,you!
since thou dost give me pains,let me remember thee what thou hast promisd,which is not yet performd me.
my brother dead!
o,ho,are you there with me?
thus we debase the nature of our seats and make the rabble call our cares fears,which will in time break ope the locks o th senate and bring in the crows to peck the eagles.
thy love?
i do beseech your lordships that,in this case of justice,my accusers,be what they will,may stand forth face to face and freely urge against me.
what should he do here?
if your will pass,i shall both find your lordship judge and juror,you are so merciful.
i do not like the man.
out of my sight!
i make you both protectors of this land,while i myself will lead a private life and in devotion spend my latter days,to sins rebuke and my creators praise.
whether it is that she reflects so bright,that dazzleth them,or else some shame supposed;but blind they are,and keep themselves enclosed.
when,without stratagem,but in plain shock and even play of battle,was ever known so great and little loss on one part and on the other?
very many,men and women too.
take pains,be perfect;adieu.
what news?
juliet appears above at a window.
before me!
ill see it truly done,my lord of york.
i am glad to see your ladyship.
let them assemble and,on a safer judgment,all revoke your ignorant election.
you have been always called a merciful man,partner.
to tell you where he lodges is to tell you where i lie.
hang him,hell be made an example.
heard you this,gonzalo?
welcome,sir.
nor i from troy come not to whisper with him;i bring a trumpet to awake his ear,to set his sense on the attentive bent,and then to speak.
two things provided more,that for this favour,he presently become a christian;the other,that he do record a gift,here in the court,of all he dies possessd unto his son lorenzo and his daughter.
o gentle aged men!
why,now you speak like a good child and a true gentleman.
body o me,where is it?
long live lord titus,my beloved brother,gracious triumpher in the eyes of rome.
no,no,you must play pyramus;and,flute,you thisbe.
what care i what curious eye doth quote deformities?
go thou with them;and in the emperors court there is a queen,attended by a moor;well shalt thou know her by thine own proportion,for up and down she doth resemble thee.
and so he did;but yet i like it not,in that he wears the badge of somerset.
condemn the fault,and not the actor of it?
the vow is made.
why,thus it shall become high-witted tamora to gloze with all.
ay,ay,three thousand ducats.
i say unto you again,you are a shallow,cowardly hind,and you lie.
and now,while tis hot,ill put it to the issue.
nurse,wheres my daughter?
m.
nay,i know not.
yes,you are.
thourt like to have a lullaby too rough.
spoke like a tall man that respects thy reputation.
hear me,paris:for every false drop in her bawdy veins a grecians life hath sunk;for every scruple of her contaminated carrion weight a trojan hath been slain.
so jest with heaven,make such unconstant children of ourselves,as now again to snatch our palm from palm,unswear faith sworn,and on the marriage-bed of smiling peace to march a bloody host,and make a riot on the gentle brow of true sincerity?
o,behold this ring,whose high respect and rich validity did lack a parallel;yet for all that he gave it to a commoner o the camp,if i be one.
callt not a plot.
my more particular,and that which most with you should safe my going,is fulvias death.
no,by mine honour,madam.
thank you,good pompey;and,in requital of your prophecy,hark you:i advise you,let me not find you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever;no,not for dwelling where you do.
we will have more of this tomorrow.
speak not so grossly.
hang thyself!
could i repair what she will wear in me as i can change these poor accoutrements,twere well for kate and better for myself.
follow,follow!
hector,what say you tot?
for her sake that i have beenfor i feel the last fit of my greatnessgood your graces,let me have time and counsel for my cause.
or you stoln his?
come,deal justly with me.
his bark is stoutly timberd,and his pilot of very expert and approvd allowance;therefore my hopes,not surfeited to death,stand in bold cure.
but speak.
kent,on thy life,no more.
it ascends me into the brain,dries me there all the foolish and dull and crudy vapours which environ it,makes it apprehensive,quick,forgetive,full of nimble,fiery,and delectable shapes,which,delivered oer to the voice,the tongue,which is the birth,becomes excellent wit.
you shall close prisoner rest,till that the nature of your fault be known to the venetian state.
if that the turkish fleet be not enshelterd,and embayd,they are drownd.
ill go through;let her mumble.
alack,my lord,that fault is none of yours.
i will not long be troubled with you.
o therefore love be of thyself so wary,as i not for my self,but for thee will,bearing thy heart which i will keep so chary as tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
for which live long to thank both heaven and me!
caesar,tis strucken eight.
wheres your knife?
help me hence,ho!
not i.
here is a letter;read it at your leisure.
methoughts that i had broken from the tower,and was embarked to cross to burgundy;and in my company my brother gloucester,who from my cabin tempted me to walk upon the hatches.
why,old soldier,wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for by tasting of our wrath?
you may jest on,but,by the holy rood,i do not like these several councils,i.
now,god help thee,poor monkey!
come,sir,now i am for you again.
for them all together;which maintained so politic a state of evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them.
hearing you praised,i say tis so,tis true,and to the most of praise add something more,but that is in my thought,whose love to you(though words come hindmost)holds his rank before,then others,for the breath of words respect,me for my dumb thoughts,speaking in effect.
never to speak of this that you have seen.
broad-fronted caesar,when thou wast here above the ground,i was a morsel for a monarch.
the king and queen and all are coming down.
the devil speaks in him.
my ladys a cataian,we are politicians,malvolios a peg-a-ramsey,andthree merry men be we.
peace,dear lady daughter,peace!
hear me a little;for i have only been silent so long,and given way unto this course of fortune,by noting of the lady:i have markd a thousand blushing apparitions to start into her face;a thousand innocent shames in angel whiteness bear away those blushes;and in her eye there hath appeard a fire,to burn the errors that these princes hold against her maiden truth.
look,sir.
look the worlds comforter,with weary gait his days hot task hath ended in the west;the owl,nights herald,shrieks,tis very late;the sheep are gone to fold,birds to their nest,and coal-black clouds that shadow heavens light do summon us to part,and bid good night.
o gods lady dear,are you so hot?
fear not,my lord.
and,ill warrant her,full of game.
retreat.
the kindest kate she hung about my neck,and kiss on kiss she vied so fast,protesting oath on oath,that in a twink she won me to her love.
no matter.
you have been hotly calld for,when,being not at your lodging to be found,the senate hath sent about three several quests to search you out.
a great banquet served in,flavius and others attending;and then enter lord timon,the senators,the athenian lords,alcibiades,and ventidius,which timon redeemded from prison.
his highness yet doth speak,and holds belief that,being brought into the open air,it would allay the burning quality of that fell poison which assaileth him.
hes a very jealousy man;she leads a very frampold life with him,good heart.
i prithee,when thou seest that act a-foot,even with the very comment of thy soul observe mine uncle.
abate thy rage,abate thy manly rage,abate thy rage,great duke!
my masters,lets stand close.
well,keep me company but two years moe,thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
wilt thou exceed in all,or dost thou do it to make me spare thee?
for gourd and fullam holds,and high and low beguile the rich and poor.
i cannot tell.
well then,no more but this:go,gentle catesby,and,as it were far off,sound thou lord hastings how he doth stand affected to our purpose,and summon him tomorrow to the tower to sit about the coronation.
a carrion death,within whose empty eye there is a written scroll.
o love,what a stout-hearted child thou art!
close at the heels of her virtues.
non,je rciteraivous promptement:dhand,de fingres,de mails,de nails,madame.
he was not born to shame.
humour me the angels.
despised substance of divinest show!
romeo,away,be gone!
how now,marina!
and what sayst thou then to my love?
speak,queen of goths,dost thou applaud my choice?
i think shell sooner prove a soldier:iron may hold with her,but never lutes.
that cassio loves her,i do well believe it;that she loves him,tis apt,and of great credit:the moor,howbeit that i endure him not,is of a constant,loving,noble nature;and,i dare think,hell prove to desdemona a most dear husband.
to bait fish withal;if it will feed nothing else,it will feed my revenge.
come on your ways.
i pray thee,keep that for the hangman,for i know thou worshippest saint nicholas as truly as a man of falsehood may.
for often have you writ to her,and she,in modesty or else for want of idle time,could not again reply,or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover,herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.
who cannot be crushed with a plot?
as surfeit is the father of much fast,so every scope by the immoderate use turns to restraint.
if i profane with my unworthiest hand this holy shrine,the gentle sin is this,my lips,two blushing pilgrims,ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
those are pearls that were his eyes.
alas,what noise?
how if that fly had a father and mother?
but how,when antony is gone,through whom i might command it?
once more,adieu.
how can these contrarieties agree?
i have done.
guilty thou art of murder and of theft,guilty of perjury and subornation,guilty of treason,forgery,and shift,guilty of incest,that abomination:an accessory by thine inclination to all sins past and all that are to come,from the creation to the general doom.
myself and you,son harry,will towards wales,to fight with glendower and the earl of march.
thou seest we are not all alone unhappy.
i tell thee,churlish priest,a ministring angel shall my sister be when thou liest howling.
give me audience,good madam.
alarums,excursions,retreat.
an interlude!
will poor folks lie,that have afflictions on them,knowing tis a punishment or trial?
you see it doth.
then ill warrant you all your lands,an if what pleases him shall pleasure you.
were you not even now with the countess olivia?
that he and caesar might determine this great war in single fight!
for the table,sir,it shall be served in;for the meat,sir,it shall be covered;for your coming in to dinner,sir,why,let it be as humours and conceits shall govern.
why,sir john,my face does you no harm.
most lamentable day,most woeful day that ever,ever,i did yet behold!
and this same half-faced fellow,shadow;give me this man.
we would have all such offenders so cut off;and we give express charge,that in our marches through the country,there be nothing compelld from the villages,nothing taken but paid for,none of the french upbraided or abused in disdainful language;for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom,the gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
want no money,sir john;you shall want none.
but this lies all within the will of god,to whom i do appeal;and in whose name tell you the dauphin i am coming on to venge me as i may,and to put forth my rightful hand in a well-hallowd cause.
the lord of stafford dear today hath bought thy likeness,for instead of thee,king harry,this sword hath ended him.
i crave your honours pardon.
which i made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands,since i was cast ashore.
even now,even here,not half an hour since.
good cinna,take this paper,and look you lay it in the praetors chair,where brutus may but find it;and throw this in at his window;set this up with wax upon old brutus statue:all this done,repair to pompeys porch,where you shall find us.
he after honour hunts,i after love.
i am sorry fort.
but my daughter,say you the like to him?
have you got leave to go to shrift today?
my good name?
see,lucius,see how much she makes of thee.
wheres bohemia?
because that,like a jack,thou keepst the stroke betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
very reverend sport,truly,and done in the testimony of a good conscience.
if it shall please you to suspend your indignation against my brother till you can derive from him better testimony of his intent,you should run a certain course;where,if you violently proceed against him,mistaking his purpose,it would make a great gap in your own honour,and shake in pieces the heart of his obedience.
tis much deep,and it should seem by th sum your masters confidence was above mine,else surely his had equalled.
sixty and nine that wore their crownets regal from the athenian bay put forth toward phrygia;and their vow is made to ransack troy,within whose strong immures the ravishd helen,menelaus queen,with wanton paris sleepsand thats the quarrel.
if so thou thinkst,vex him with eager words.
therefore,for fear of the worst,i pray thee set a deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket,for if the devil be within and that temptation without,i know he will choose it.
o,what a time have you chose out,brave caius,to wear a kerchief!
master malvolio?
tell him if he i th blood-sized field lay swollen,showing the sun his teeth,grinning at the moon,what you would do.
this so darks in philoten all graceful marks,that cleons wife,with envy rare,a present murderer does prepare for good marina,that her daughter might stand peerless by this slaughter.
fortune is an excellent moral.
shall i not hear my task?
sir,mine own company.
what say you,james soundpost?
thunder and lightning.
knock,i say.
you shall know how i speed.
but shall she marry him?
say you?
there can be no evasion to blench from this and to stand firm by honour.
this is my last of vestal office.
what features?
good grandsire,leave these bitter deep laments.
nothing but my fortune.
how many children hast thou,widow?
there will i leave you too,for here comes one in haste.
friend,know me better:i am the lord pandarus.
nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
do you not remember,a saw a flea stick upon bardolphs nose,and a said it was a black soul burning in hell-fire?
but no metal can,no,not the hangmans axe,bear half the keenness of thy sharp envy.
i heard of one of them no longer than yesterdaya very honest woman,but something given to lie;as a woman should not do but in the way of honestyhow she died of the biting of it,what pain she felt.
ay,two hours together.
thy loving father,hamlet.
tis well you offer it behind her back,the wish would make else an unquiet house.
if opportunity and humblest suit cannot attain it,why thenhark you hither.
artificial strife lives in these touches livelier than life.
she never saw it.
why brand they us with base?
in isbels case and mine own.
therefore,lord oxford,to prevent the worst,forthwith well send him hence to brittany till storms be past of civil enmity.
but since the gods will have it thus,that nothing but our lives may be calld ransom,let it come.
his faults lie gently on him!
shall i not live to be avenged on her?
proud prelate,in thy face i see thy fury.
my lord?
it does a mans heart good.
not till monday,my dear son,which is hence a just seven-night;and a time too brief too,to have all things answer my mind.
thou art perfect,then,our ship hath touchd upon the deserts of bohemia?
wine,wine,wine!
fight bravely,cousin;give me thy noble hand.
not caesars valour hath oerthrown antony,but antonys hath triumphed on itself.
run,lucius,and commend me to my lord;say i am merry;come to me again,and bring me word what he doth say to thee.
nymph,in thy orisons be all my sins rememberd.
you,diana,under my poor instructions yet must suffer something in my behalf.
my lord,if youll give me leave,i will tread this unbolted villain into mortar and daub the walls of a jakes with him.
well hast thou spoken,cousin.
bring forth men-children only;for thy undaunted mettle should compose nothing but males.
speak not you for him;hes a traitor.
the flame o th taper bows toward her and would under-peep her lids to see th enclosed lights,now canopied under these windows white and azure,lacd with blue of heavens own tinct.
nothing but this,your true love for my master.
here once again we sit,once again crownd,and lookd upon,i hope,with cheerful eyes.
but here is carlisle living,to abide thy kingly doom and sentence of his pride.
yours this way.
vows are but breath,and breath a vapour is.
the queen,my lord,is dead.
nor is there living i speak it with a single heart,my lords a man that more detests,more stirs against,both in his private conscience and his place,defacers of a public peace than i do.
i speak of peace,while covert enmity under the smile of safety wounds the world.
if it please your honour,i am the poor dukes constable,and my name is elbow.
by your leave,sir.
by my troth,thou sayest true.
for then the bold and coward,the wise and fool,the artist and unread,the hard and soft,seem all affind and kin.
prithee dispatch.
the gods confound them all in thy conquest,and thee after,when thou hast conquered!
ill to the court in the morning.
ill leave you,lady.
well proved,wit!
i am sure hangings the way of winking.
to pluck down justice from your awful bench?
landlord of england art thou now,not king.
something then in rhyme.
but,come;our dance,i pray.
a sly and constant knave,not to be shakd;the agent for his master,and the remembrancer of her to hold the hand-fast to her lord.
i will confess what i know without constraint.
but if you faint,as fearing to do so,stay and be secret,and myself will go.
the devil himself hath not such a name.
i had rather break mine own.
have you married my daughter without asking my good will?
i am again for cydnus to meet mark antony.
lysander,speak again.
my lord,i dare not.
heres goodly gear!
and my good friend petruchio!
before i be convict by course of law,to threaten me with death is most unlawful.
look upon em,and,if you can love,end this difference;i give consent.
why,we are still handling our ewes,and their fells,you know,are greasy.
sweet lord,you play me false.
and an ill singer,my lord.
o,for honour of our land,let us not hang like roping icicles upon our houses thatch,whiles a more frosty people sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields!
i think it is the weakness of mine eyes that shapes this monstrous apparition.
lord cardinal,the willingst sin i ever yet committed may be absolved in english.
rome,be as just and gracious unto me as i am confident and kind to thee.
whats that,butts?
how now,good cassio,whats the news with you?
post you to london,and you will find it so.
this windy tempest,till it blow up rain,held back his sorrows tide,to make it more.
what,am i poor of late?
an twere to give againbut tis no matter.
see it done,and feast the army;we have store to dot,and they have earned the waste.
for me?
but a man that were to sleep your sleep,and a hangman to help him to bed,i think he would change places with his officer;for look you,sir,you know not which way you shall go.
look you,here comes my mistress page.
if she first meet the curled antony,hell make demand of her,and spend that kiss which is my heaven to have.
come,york and richard,warwick,and the rest;i stabbed your fathers bosoms,split my breast.
for all beneath the moon would i not leap upright.
yet when i saw it last it was besmeard as black as vulcan,in the smoke of war.
this get i by his death.
where hast thou been,sister?
the dram of evil doth all the noble substance of a doubt to his own scandal.
would i had met my dearest foe in heaven or ever i had seen that day,horatio.
hes no swaggerer,hostess;a tame cheater,i faith,you may stroke him as gently as a puppy greyhound.
from henceforth i will,coz,and devise sports.
my lord,upon the platform where we watch.
ill eat nothing,i thank you,sir.
as i?
i think thou dost,and indeed,with most painful feeling of thy speech.
good morrow,brother bedford.
by th helm of mars,i saw them in the war,like to a pair of lions,smeared with prey,make lanes in troops aghast.
is this the princes brother?
ay,my lord,ant please you.
then theres hope a great mans memory may outlive his life half a year.
their faults are open.
what is this forest calld?
tis best to give him way;he leads himself.
very good,a good phrase.
tonight we hold a solemn supper,sir,and ill request your presence.
haply some poison yet doth hang on them,to make me die with a restorative.
he doth,my lord,and is become your foe.
is not a dukedom,sir,a goodly gift?
or those doves eyes,which can make gods forsworn?
i am much bounden to your majesty.
god give thee joy of him!
and you all know,security is mortals chiefest enemy.
and with the juice of this ill streak her eyes,and make her full of hateful fantasies.
as well as lewis of france or the earl of warwick,which are so weak of courage and in judgment that theyll take no offence at our abuse.
the maid is fair,o th youngest for a bride,and i have bred her at my dearest cost in qualities of the best.
i am sorry,cymbeline,that i am to pronounce augustus csar(csar,that hath moe kings his servants than thyself domestic officers)thine enemy.
where is the master,boson?
then shall we hear their larum,and they ours.
god speed the parliament!
come,will this wood take fire?
this done,see that you take no longer days,but send the midwife presently to me.
what,gone,my lord,and bid me not farewell?
let me hear no more.
away,you three-inch fool!
the will of heaven be done in this and all things.
say,for non-payment that the debt should double,is twenty hundred kisses such a trouble?
down with the nose,down with it flat,take the bridge quite away of him that,his particular to foresee,smells from the general weal.
because he needs no praise,wilt thou be dumb?
were i his lady i would poison that vile rascal.
no,my lord.
tongue,lose thy light!
so,proceed you.
my legs like loaden branches bow to th earth,willing to leave their burden.
theres money for thee;if you tarry longer i shall give worse payment.
but this same cassio,though he speak of comfort touching the turkish loss,yet he looks sadly,and prays the moor be safe;for they were parted with foul and violent tempest.
someone be ready with a costly suit,and ask him what apparel he will wear;another tell him of his hounds and horse,and that his lady mourns at his disease.
tis in my head to do my master good:i see no reason but supposd lucentio must get a father,calld supposd vincentio;and thats a wonder:fathers commonly do get their children;but in this case of wooing a child shall get a sire,if i fail not of my cunning.
there is no other way but to tell the king shes a changeling,and none of your flesh and blood.
for suffolk,he that can do all in all with her that hateth thee and hates us all,and york and impious beaufort,that false priest,have all limed bushes to betray thy wings;and fly thou how thou canst,theyll tangle thee.
nurse,commend me to thy lady and mistress.
hes welcome.
by heaven,i do love,and it hath taught me to rhyme,and to be melancholy.
come,prepare.
you gentle gods,give me but this i have,and sear up my embracements from a next with bonds of death!
what,jealous oberon!
take hands.
you are married?
here,wear this jewel for me,tis my picture.
whos there?
the court of pandarus house.
i say,a devil.
good fortune and the favour of the king smile upon this contract;whose ceremony shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,and be performd tonight.
i would i knew in what particular action to try him.
i should venture purgatory for t.
gallus,go you along.
virtue itself turns vice being misapplied,and vice sometimes by action dignified.
by the lord,a buck-basket!
thy princely office how canst thou fulfill,when,patterned by thy fault,foul sin may say he learned to sin,and thou didst teach the way?
so well that what you bid me undertake,though that my death were adjunct to my act,by heaven,i would do it.
the just proportion that we gave them out.
the moor is with child by you,launcelet.
no,i went round to work,and my young mistress thus i did bespeak:lord hamlet is a prince,out of thy star.
the concavities of it is not sufficient;for,look you,the athversary,you may discuss unto the duke,look you,is digt himself four yard under the countermines.
is this th athenian minion whom the world voiced so regardfully?
why,romeo,art thou mad?
is not my sorrow deep,having no bottom?
o,my good lord,when i was like this maid;i found you wondrous kind.
and how accompanied?
but,my good lord,how now for mitigation of this bill urged by the commons?
are all these things perceived in me?
friend valentine,a word.
i came to serve a king,and not a duke.
will she away tonight?
philip of france,on peril of a curse,let go the hand of that arch-heretic,and raise the power of france upon his head,unless he do submit himself to rome.
well wait upon your lordship.
sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully!
you would be fingering them to anger me.
let no face be kept in mind but the fair of rosalind.
the three queens meet him and fall on their faces before him.
you little jack-a-lent,have you been true to us?
your highness bade me ask for it today.
i thank god and my cold blood,i am of your humour for that.
my father,as nurse said,did never fear,but cried good seamen!
thus have i had thee as a dream doth flatter,in sleep a king,but waking no such matter.
if i could speak so wisely under an arrest,i would send for certain of my creditors;and yet,to say the truth,i had as lief have the foppery of freedom as the morality of imprisonment.
tell helicanus,my marina,tell him oer,point by point,for yet he seems to doubt,how sure you are my daughter.
out,out,thou strumpet fortune!
don pedro.
what ist,my lord?
let me desire your company.
i must prevent thee,cimber.
where art thou muse that thou forgetst so long,to speak of that which gives thee all thy might?
what,will you have them weep our horses blood?
what ceremony else?
name not the god,thou boy of tears.
if you will let your lady know i am here to speak with her,and bring her along with you,it may awake my bounty further.
nay,i care not for such words;no,no.
but orderly to end where i begun,our wills and fates do so contrary run that our devices still are overthrown.
ill have an action of battery against him,if there be any law in illyria.
could not you find out that by her attributes?
i was not born a yielder,thou proud scot,and thou shalt find a king that will revenge lord staffords death.
this tis:blunt wedges rive hard knots.
this had been cheerful after victory.
hear me,you wrangling pirates,that fall out in sharing that which you have pilled from me!
therefore,my lords,it highly us concerns by day and night to attend him carefully,and feed his humour kindly as we may,till time beget some careful remedy.
like a drowned man,a fool,and a madman:one draught above heat makes him a fool,the second mads him,and a third drowns him.
if tears could help,mine own would do me good.
you know me,apemantus?
think what thou wilt,i am thy lovers grace;and like limander am i trusty still.
that you must.
i pompey amwith leopards head on knee.
balthasarsigh no more,ladies,sigh no more,men were deceivers ever;one foot in sea,and one on shore,to one thing constant never.
hail,reverend sir!
both,both.
he that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding.
i hope i shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another.
good den,good den.
not resolute,except so much were done,for things are often spoke and seldom meant;but that my heart accordeth with my tongue,seeing the deed is meritorious,and to preserve my sovereign from his foe,say but the word,and i will be his priest.
here,man.
your office,sergeant:execute it.
then enter douglas and sir walter blunt.
go,call before me all the lords in court.
could thought,without this object,form such another?
sure he cannot be so unmanly as to leave me here.
let every soldier hew him down a bough,and beart before him.
i am content.
here,boys,here,here!
or do you but counterfeit?
if it be,sir,i pray you eat none of it.
sweet palamon.
lets see thy face.
beshrew the witch!
this toil of ours should be a work of thine;but thou from loving england art so far that thou hast underwrought his lawful king,cut off the sequence of posterity,outfaced infant state,and done a rape upon the maiden virtue of the crown.
page nay,good master parson,keep in your weapon.
beguild,divorced,wronged,spited,slain.
is this the madman?
by me thou shalt have justice at his hands.
come,sister;dromio,play the porter well.
it grieves his highness.
catesby,fly to the duke.
you conclude that my master is a shepherd then,and i a sheep?
but pardon me,i am too sudden bold.
someone hath set you on.
if thou wert the lion,the fox would beguile thee;if thou wert the lamb,the fox would eat thee;if thou wert the fox,the lion would suspect thee when peradventure thou wert accused by the ass;if thou wert the ass,thy dulness would torment thee,and still thou livedst but as a breakfast to the wolf;if thou wert the wolf,thy greediness would afflict thee,and oft thou shouldst hazard thy life for thy dinner.
i thank my good father,i am able to maintain it.
how will you do to content this substitute,and to save your brother?
i did think thee,for two ordinaries,to be a pretty wise fellow;thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel;it might pass.
how now,sir knave!
but,sir,forgive me,since my becomings kill me when they do not eye well to you.
strike up,pipers!
farewell to your worship.
discharge my followers.
this earthly saint,adored by this devil,little suspecteth the false worshipper;for unstained thoughts do seldom dream on evil;birds never limed no secret bushes fear.
his hands were guilty of no kindreds blood,but bloody with the enemies of his kin.
look as the full-fed hound or gorged hawk,unapt for tender smell or speedy flight,make slow pursuit,or altogether balk the prey wherein by nature they delight;so surfeit-taking tarquin fares this night.
for well you know we of the offring side must keep aloof from strict arbitrement,and stop all sight-holes,every loop from whence the eye of reason may pry in upon us.
ay,well said,whisper.
lets be calm.
would we could see you at corinth!
tell us this:have you anything to take to?
o,well begged!
at his own shadow let the thief run mad,himself himself seek every hour to kill.
o love,this only from this hour is complexion.
they do not go together.
sister,you know he promisd me a chain;would that alone,a love he would detain,so he would keep fair quarter with his bed.
holla,you clown!
leave not the worthy lucius,good my lords,till he have crossd the severn.
because you talk of wooing,i will sing;since many a wooer doth commence his suit to her he thinks not worthy;yet he wooes;yet will he swear he loves.
whose tongue?
how now,sir toby belch?
he must needs;for beggary is valiant.
there is gold for you;sell me your good report.
he shall not tread on me.
i have lookd on thousands who have sped the better by my regard,but killd none so.
who knocks?
there is no more but so.
how now?
call in my gentlewoman.
ill lay my head to any good mans hat these oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn.
some aqua vitae,ho!
o,see,my women,the crown o th earth doth melt.
will the time serve to tell?
the curse never fell upon our nation till now,i never felt it till now.
there are yet missing of your company some few odd lads that you remember not.
who,i?
thats hector,that,that,look you,that;theres a fellow!
the gods make this a happy day to antony!
let me put in your minds,if you forget,what you have been ere this,and what you are;withal,what i have been,and what i am.
our slippery people,whose love is never linked to the deserver till his deserts are past,begin to throw pompey the great and all his dignities upon his son,who,high in name and power,higher than both in blood and life,stands up for the main soldier;whose quality,going on,the sides o th world may danger.
my lord,to step out of these dreary dumps,how comes it that the subtle queen of goths is of a sudden thus advanced in rome?
long sitting to determine poor mens causes hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
because i will not do them the wrong to mistrust any,i will do myself the right to trust none;and the fine is,for the which i may go the finer,i will live a bachelor.
tis not so,i hope.
by heaven,thy love is black as ebony.
well then,confess and live.
we do.
a pound of that same merchants flesh is thine,the court awards it and the law doth give it.
this ring was his of late.
when by no means he could,pursue him,ho!
thats enough.
no,not so,villain;thou beliest thyself:here stand a pair of honourable men;a third is fled,that had a hand in it.
let me not understand you,then;speak it in welsh.
tread not upon him.
the times are wild;contention,like a horse full of high feeding,madly hath broke loose and bears down all before him.
i cannot weep,for all my bodys moisture scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart;nor can my tongue unload my hearts great burthen,for selfsame wind that i should speak withal is kindling coals that fires all my breast and burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
truly,i am so glad you have nobody here.
go fetch them hither;if they deny to come,swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands.
a mighty man of pisa:by report i know him well:you are very welcome,sir.
spake you with him?
what,the good-year!
i am with you.
what hast here?
who wafts us yonder?
well;again.
fair lords,your fortunes are alike in all,that in your countrys service drew your swords;but safer triumph is this funeral pomp that hath aspired to solons happiness and triumphs over chance in honours bed.
thats a fair thought to lie between maids legs.
a day in april never came so sweet,to show how costly summer was at hand,as this fore-spurrer comes before his lord.
hark,our drums are bringing forth our youth.
i was one,sir,in this interlude,one sir topas,sir,but thats all one.
my lord,in athens.
let him be called for.
very well,my lord:the music ended,well fit the kid-fox with a penny-worth.
but long i will not be jack out of office.
do you mark that?
then shall i bleed to death.
yes,sir.
do not extort thy reasons from this clause,for that i woo,thou therefore hast no cause;but rather reason thus with reason fetter:love sought is good,but given unsought is better.
by your patience,if gainst yourself you be incensed,well put you,like one that means his proper harm,in manacles,then reason safely with you.
why does the world report that kate doth limp?
an if i wist he didbut let it rest;other affairs must now be managed.
let there be gall enough in thy ink,though thou write with a goose-pen,no matter.
and now what rests but,in nights coverture,thy brother being carelessly encamped,his soldiers lurking in the towns about,and but attended by a simple guard,we may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
what the devil art thou?
i could myself take up a brace o th best of them,yea,the two tribunes.
saw you the field?
so shows a snowy dove trooping with crows as yonder lady oer her fellows shows.
come let me see it.
all our surgeons convent in their behoof;our richest balms,rather than niggard,waste.
prince pirithous obtained his liberty,but never more upon his oath and life must he set foot upon this kingdom.
it is the soldiers;i by bargain should wear it myself.
catesby,oerlook the walls.
prithee tell him,so much the rent of his land comes to:he will not believe a fool.
the fire i th flint shows not till it be struck;our gentle flame provokes itself and,like the current,flies each bound it chases.
in the corrupted currents of this world offences gilded hand may shove by justice,and oft tis seen the wicked prize itself buys out the law.
being so great,i have no need to beg.
here comes your cousin.
husband win,win brother,prays and destroys the prayer;no midway twixt these extremes at all.
i would your grace would constrain me to tell.
a herald,kate?
touch not the boy,he is of royal blood.
your present kindness makes my past miseries sports:you shall do well,that on the touching of her lips i may melt and no more be seen.
i do not think so.
fool,fool;thou whetst a knife to kill thyself.
is there no remedy?
so said her woman,and that her suffrance made almost each pang a death.
yea,brother of clarence,art thou here too?
my very hairs do mutiny,for the white reprove the brown for rashness,and they them for fear and doting.
but of that tomorrow,when therewithal we shall have cause of state craving us jointly.
these are the parents to these children,which accidentally are met together.
get your apparel together,good strings to your beards,new ribbons to your pumps;meet presently at the palace;every man look oer his part.
is my name talbot?
go and tell them so.
sure,we thank you.
o,let us yet be merciful.
how stand i then,that have a father killd,a mother staind,excitements of my reason and my blood,and let all sleep,while to my shame i see the imminent death of twenty thousand men that,for a fantasy and trick of fame,go to their graves like beds,fight for a plot whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,which is not tomb enough and continent to hide the slain?
which of you saw sir eglamour of late?
hume must make merry with the duchess gold.
thats christian care enough.
it is more worthy to leap in ourselves than tarry till they push us.
i fear me,never.
i see things may serve long,but not serve ever.
it will be laid to us,whose providence should have kept short,restraind,and out of haunt this mad young man.
this presence knows,and you must needs have heard,how i am punishd with sore distraction.
to be in love,where scorn is bought with groans,coy looks with heart-sore sighs,one fading moments mirth with twenty watchful,weary,tedious nights.
sir,you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your habit,but your words show you a madman.
ay,and hectors a greyhound.
why should the poor be flatterd?
and i had mine!
it doth,my worthy lord,and in this match i hold me highly honoured of your grace;and here in sight of rome,to saturnine,king and commander of our commonweal,the wide worlds emperor,do i consecrate my sword,my chariot,and my prisoners;presents well worthy romes imperious lord.
let not thy sword skip one.
descend to darkness and the burning lake!
this is the deadly spite that angers me,my wife can speak no english,i no welsh.
or wallow naked in december snow by thinking on fantastic summers heat?
lepidus flatters both,of both is flattered;but he neither loves nor either cares for him.
three times today my foot-cloth horse did stumble,and started when he looked upon the tower,as loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
confess,confess;hath he not hit you here?
theres something tells me(but it is not love)i would not lose you,and you know yourself hate counsels not in such a quality.
he that a fool doth very wisely hit doth very foolishly,although he smart,not to seem senseless of the bob.
old time the clock-setter,that bald sexton time,is it as he will?
mine,boy?
the king is angry.
i am glad the fat knight is not here.
death,lie thou there,by a dead man interrd.
but if thou beest not an ass,i am a youth of fourteen;i have known thee already.
and why not the swift foot of time?
i will presently to saint lukes;there at the moated grange resides this dejected mariana.
may i speak with antonio?
because not there.
the heavens have thought well on thee,lafew,to bring forth this discovery.
why,lamb,why,lady,fie,you slug-abed!
yet i say i could show you to the contrary.
why,my lord of york commends the plot and the general course of the action.
and,norfolk,throw down his.
heaven forgive me!
right gracious lord,i cannot brook delay.
to make frantic,lunatic.
i cannot help it now,unless by using means i lame the foot of our design.
come,sit thou here,most learned justicer;thou,sapient sir,sit here.
lady,by your leave.
is he at home?
if not,the wise mans folly is anatomized even by the squandering glances of the fool.
the clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
fortune now to my hearts hope!
ay me!
for there his smell with others being mingled,the hot scent-snuffing hounds are driven to doubt,ceasing their clamorous cry,till they have singled with much ado the cold fault cleanly out;then do they spend their mouths:echo replies,as if another chase were in the skies.
o,this boy lends mettle to us all!
fair beatrice,i thank you for your pains.
both sides are even:here ill sit i th midst.
go,good lord hastings,and,ere they be dismissd,let them march by.
alas,malvolio,this is not my writing,though i confess,much like the character:but out of question,tis marias hand.
o,let us pay the time but needful woe,since it hath been beforehand with our griefs.
then heres a man stands that has brought his pardon.
no prophet will i trust if she prove false.
he that is yours,sweet lady.
this business is well ended.
despair and die!
is that a wonder?
knock him down there.
o diable!
well,peace be with you,sir,here comes my man.
calmly,i do beseech you.
i give you welcome with a powerless hand,but with a heart full of unstained love.
your cause of sorrow must not be measurd by his worth,for then it hath no end.
what one,my lord?
in a rebellion,when whats not meet but what must be was law,then were they chosen.
sweet misprision!
wheres seleucus?
thus art with arms contending was victor of the day,which by a gift of learning did bear the maid away:then lullaby,the learned man hath got the lady gay;for now my song is ended.
would they speak with me?
you speak like a green girl,unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
thirty-three years have i but gone in travail of you,my sons,and till this present hour my heavy burden neer delivered.
i would be sorry,my lord,but it should be thus.
nay,but you will?
that only came well in.
i cry thee mercy.
if i do lie,and do no harm by it,though the gods hear,i hope theyll pardon it.
darkness,which ever was the dam of horror,who does stand accursed of many mortal millions,may even now,by casting her black mantle over both,that neither could find other,get herself some part of a good name,and many a murder set off whereto shes guilty.
i think it cites us,brother,to the field,that we,the sons of brave plantagenet,each one already blazing by our meeds,should notwithstanding join our lights together,and overshine the earth,as this the world.
but it chances the stealth of our most mutual entertainment with character too gross is writ on juliet.
i know thee well enough,thy name is gloucester.
now thou art an o without a figure:i am better than thou art now.
fie,demetrius!
which is that god in office,guiding men?
my kinsman shall speak for himself.
but not for that dream i on this strange course,but on this travail look for greater birth.
quick,come.
i hold it cowardice to rest mistrustful where a noble heart hath pawned an open hand in sign of love;else might i think that clarence,edwards brother,were but a feigned friend to our proceedings.
the earl northumberland and the lord bardolph,with a great power of english and of scots,are by the shrieve of yorkshire overthrown.
lo where he comes.
so let him land,and solemnly see him set on to london.
humbly complaining to her deity got my lord chamberlain his liberty.
fortune is bardolphs foe,and frowns on him;for he hath stolen a pax,and hanged must a be,a damned death!
thou wear a lions hide!
but,katharine,what was sent to you from fair dumaine?
if i were bound to divine of this unity,i would not prophesy so.
i never saw her till this time.
come,sir,away.
my lord,that would dishonour him.
what is the matter?
upon mine honour,he is prisoner.
no more than what he thinks he is.
unarm,unarm,and do not fight today.
you cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers that bear this heavy mutual load of moan,now cheer each other in each others love.
and heres something to paint your pole withal.
they shall be no more than needful there,if they were more than they can commend.
that eye which looks on her confounds his wits;that eye which him beholds,as more divine,unto a view so false will not incline,but with a pure appeal seeks to the heart,which once corrupted takes the worser part;and therein heartens up his servile powers,who,flattered by their leaders jocund show,stuff up his lust,as minutes fill up hours;and as their captain,so their pride doth grow,paying more slavish tribute than they owe.
i fill a place,i knowt.
holy franciscan friar!
darst thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?
and i,to keep all this.
theres no remedy.
what wouldst thou with us?
if she be up,ill speak with her;if not,let her lie still and dream.
alive again?
if the wars eat us not up,they will;and theres all the love they bear us.
not i,believe me.
my honourd lady,i have forgiven and forgotten all,though my revenges were high bent upon him,and watchd the time to shoot.
heres too small a pasture for such store of muttons.
you may know by their trumpets.
if you cannot bar his access to th king,never attempt anything on him,for he hath a witchcraft over the king in s tongue.
the feast smells well,but i appear not like a guest.
the dreams here still.
how dost thou?
come hither,englands hope.
what potions have i drunk of siren tears distilled from limbecks foul as hell within,applying fears to hopes,and hopes to fears,still losing when i saw my self to win!
peace,headstrong warwick!
kind and dear princess!
to thee,king john,my holy errand is.
besides,virginity is peevish,proud,idle,made of self-love,which is the most inhibited sin in the canon.
here,there,and everywhere,he leaves and takes;dexterity so obeying appetite that what he will he does,and does so much that proof is calld impossibility.
or are you aught that man may question?
and then,forsooth,the faint defects of age must be the scene of mirth:to cough and spit and,with a palsy fumbling on his gorget,shake in and out the rivet.
matthew gough is slain,and all the rest.
the last of all the romans,fare thee well!
now,by the capitol that we adore,and by this chaste blood so unjustly stained,by heavens fair sun that breeds the fat earths store,by all our country rights in rome maintained,and by chaste lucrece soul that late complained her wrongs to us,and by this bloody knife,we will revenge the death of this true wife.
this man,aufidius,was my beloved in rome;yet thou beholdst.
hark ye,your romeo will be here at night.
come,follow me,boy;come,sir boy,come,follow me.
if gloucester be displaced,hell be protector.
i go,my lord.
a letter,that she loves the knight of tyre!
so much the worse,if your own rule be true.
then,bootless toil must recompense itself with its own sweat.
we the globe can compass soon,swifter than the wandring moon.
if you have anything to say to me,come to my ward,for thence will not i today.
give it the beasts,to be rid of the men.
why,it is a fairer name than french crown.
this is all our world.
quick,quick!
madam,your father here doth intimate the payment of a hundred thousand crowns,being but the one half of an entire sum disbursed by my father in his wars.
mark antony tug him away.
but,o strange men!
he by the senate is accited home from weary wars against the barbarous goths,that with his sons,a terror to our foes,hath yoked a nation strong,trained up in arms.
that sport best pleases that doth least know how,where zeal strives to content,and the contents die in the zeal of that which it presents;their form confounded makes most form in mirth,when great things labouring perish in their birth.
mowbray,the bishop scroop,hastings and all are brought to the correction of your law.
to say the truth,true and not true.
here comes the little villain.
what title hast thou,traitor,to the crown?
for first was he contract to lady lucy your mother lives a witness to his vow,and afterward by substitute betrothed to bona,sister to the king of france.
o my word,and she knew him as well as i do,she would think scolding would do little good upon him.
say his long trouble now is passing out of this world.
show us wherein,and,from the place where you behold us pleading,the poor remainder of andronici will,hand in hand,all headlong hurl ourselves,and on the ragged stones beat forth our souls,and make a mutual closure of our house.
no,i do not know you,nor i am not sent to you by my lady,to bid you come speak with her;nor your name is not master cesario;nor this is not my nose neither.
thy father was,as thou art,duke of york;thy grandfather,roger mortimer,earl of march.
and the bodies shall be dragged at my horse heels till i do come to london,where we will have the mayors sword borne before us.
this last old man,whom with cracked heart i have sent to rome,loved me above the measure of a father,nay,godded me indeed.
i cannot give due action to my words except a sword or sceptre balance it.
came you from padua,from bellario?
if i hang,ill make a fat pair of gallows;for,if i hang,old sir john hangs with me,and thou knowest he is no starveling.
celestial as thou art,o,pardon love this wrong,that sings heavens praise with such an earthly tongue.
i had as lief thou didst break his neck as his finger.
this volumnia is worth of consuls,senators,patricians a city full;of tribunes such as you a sea and land full.
i talkd with no man at that hour,my lord.
she shall,lucentio.
come,good athenian.
how shall we then dispense with that contract,and not deface your honour with reproach?
pleaseth your grace to answer them directly how far forth you do like their articles.
thoudst thank me but a little for my counsel;and yet ill promise thee she shall be rich,and very rich:but thart too much my friend,and ill not wish thee to her.
god bless you,captain parolles.
i have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins that almost freezes up the heat of life.
go,sir,rub your chain with crumbs.
thy adversarys wife doth pray for thee.
is not this well?
and i to page shall eke unfold how falstaff,varlet vile,his dove will prove,his gold will hold,and his soft couch defile.
your lordship is the most patient man in loss,the most coldest that ever turnd up ace.
if there be cords or knives,poison or fire,or suffocating streams,ill not endure t.
what sayest thou to this?
be great in act,as you have been in thought;let not the world see fear and sad distrust govern the motion of a kingly eye.
a spirit?
i charge ye,bear her hence.
let it be so.
if so,then be not tongue-tied.
marry,well said;very well said.
nurse,give leave awhile,we must talk in secret.
there is an old tale goes that herne the hunter,sometime a keeper here in windsor forest,doth all the winter time,at still midnight,walk round about an oak,with great ragged horns,and there he blasts the tree,and takes the cattle,and makes milch-kine yield blood,and shakes a chain in a most hideous and dreadful manner.
ay,and more.
when it comes,cranmer will find a friend will not shrink from him.
sir harry,place you that side;ill take the charge of this.
of albanys and cornwalls powers you heard not?
heres no place for you.
doth this man serve god?
twas not your valour,clifford,drove me thence.
there you shall find that portia was the doctor,nerissa there,her clerk.
you have crafted fair!
o,that i had my wish!
down saint magnus corner!
for vilest things become themselves in her,that the holy priests bless her when she is riggish.
the will,the will!
where then,alas!
let me see.
i will go learn more of it.
it were pity to cast them away for nothing,though,between them and a great cause they should be esteemed nothing.
what should this mean?
will he woo her?
ah,my good lord of winchester,i thank you.
they stand,and would have parley.
but when your carters or your waiting vassals have done a drunken slaughter,and defaced the precious image of our dear redeemer,you straight are on your knees for pardon,pardon,and i,unjustly too,must grant it you.
i thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
i answer to that name.
the lords at pomfret,when they rode from london,were jocund and supposed their states were sure,and they indeed had no cause to mistrust;but yet you see how soon the day oercast.
the better,that it pleases your good worship to ask.
in few,his death,whose spirit lent a fire even to the dullest peasant in his camp,being bruited once,took fire and heat away from the best-temperd courage in his troops;for from his metal was his party steeld,which once in him abated,all the rest turnd on themselves,like dull and heavy lead.
what a coil is there,dromio,who are those at the gate?
i am bound to call upon you,and i pray you your name?
there,when my maiden priests are met together,before the people all,reveal how thou at sea didst lose thy wife:to mourn thy crosses,with thy daughters,call and give them repetition to the life.
three months this youth hath tended upon me;but more of that anon.
now the witch take me if i meant it thus!
the gods give you joy,sir,heartily.
for learn this,silius:better to leave undone than by our deed acquire too high a fame when him we serves away.
it is that fery person for all the orld,as just as you will desire,and seven hundred pounds of moneys,and gold,and silver,is her grandsire upon his deaths-bedgot deliver to a joyful resurrections!
this earth that bears thee dead bears not alive so stout a gentleman.
i tell him we shall stay here at the least a month,and he heartly prays some occasion may detain us longer:i dare swear he is no hypocrite,but prays from his heart.
and i have horse will follow where the game makes way,and run like swallows oer the plain.
if thou dost weep for grief of my sustaining,know,gentle wench,it small avails my mood.
i do follow here in the chase,not like a hound that hunts,but one that fills up the cry.
why,what a ruthless thing is this in him,for the rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a man!
take thou this vial,being then in bed,and this distilled liquor drink thou off,when presently through all thy veins shall run a cold and drowsy humour;for no pulse shall keep his native progress,but surcease.
i pandulph,of fair milan cardinal,and from pope innocent the legate here,do in his name religiously demand why thou against the church,our holy mother,so wilfully dost spurn;and force perforce keep stephen langton,chosen archbishop of canterbury,from that holy see.
i thank ye heartily;so shall this lady,when she has so much english.
when these mutualities so marshal the way,hard at hand comes the master and main exercise,the incorporate conclusion.
madam,in happy time,what day is that?
though his false finger have profaned the ring,mine shall not do his julia so much wrong.
nay,an i do,i pray god my girdle break.
she must change for youth.
how now,ophelia,whats the matter?
howling attends it.
whither are you bound?
marry,what i have,be it what it will,i will assure upon my daughter at the day of my death.
him we go to find.
sweet sir toby,be patient for tonight.
why is my lord enraged against his love?
this that you heard was but a colour.
stay by me,my lords;and,soldiers,stay and lodge by me this night.
villain,thy father was a plasterer,and thou thyself a shearman,art thou not?
come,gertrude,well call up our wisest friends,and let them know both what we mean to do and whats untimely done,so haply slander,whose whisper oer the worlds diameter,as level as the cannon to his blank,transports his poisond shot,may miss our name,and hit the woundless air.
set it to th north.
and more a friend than eer an enemy yet,martius,that was much.
i might as yet have been a spreading flower,fresh to myself,if i had self-applied love to myself,and to no love beside.
how quickly the wrong side may be turned outward!
the queen of audience nor desire shall fail,so she from egypt drive her all-disgraced friend,or take his life there.
zounds,if i stir,or do but lift this arm,the best of you shall sink in my rebuke.
what will you say without em?
faith,sir,few of any wit in such matters.
if you be not too much cloyed with fat meat,our humble author will continue the story,with sir john in it,and make you merry with fair katharine of france;where,for anything i know,falstaff shall die of a sweat,unless already he be killed with your hard opinions;for oldcastle died a martyr,and this is not the man.
but mark the sequel,master brook.
ill draw the curtain:my lords almost so far transported that hell think anon it lives.
shes een setting on water to scald such chickens as you are.
come,shall we go and kill us venison?
am i politic?
ho,the gibbet-maker?
o,bravely came we off,when with a volley of our needless shot,after such bloody toil,we bid good night,and wound our tottring colours clearly up,last in the field,and almost lords of it!
and,for these great affairs do ask some charge,towards our assistance we do seize to us the plate,coin,revenues,and moveables whereof our uncle gaunt did stand possessed.
such a house broke?
o heavens,what some men do,while some men leave to do!
what would you fore our tent?
let the great gods,that keep this dreadful pudder oer our heads,find out their enemies now.
this was not counterfeit.
such friends are thine enemies,knave.
he looked all grace and success,and he is doubtless the primst of men.
father,tis thus:yourself and all the world that talkd of her have talkd amiss of her:if she be curst,it is for policy,for shes not froward,but modest as the dove;she is not hot,but temperate as the morn;for patience she will prove a second grissel,and roman lucrece for her chastity;and to conclude,we have greed so well together that upon sunday is the wedding-day.
only you do lack that mercy which fierce fire and iron extends,creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses.
if thou wert honourable,thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue,not for such an end thou seekst,as base as strange.
theres bests son,the tanner of wingham.
o,pardon me,thou bleeding piece of earth,that i am meek and gentle with these butchers.
quick,quick,fear nothing;ill be at thy elbow.
father,in.
me rather had my heart might feel your love than my unpleased eye see your courtesy.
ill tell you what you shall do.
how now,sir john?
you have said,sir.
tush,my good lord,this superficial tale is but a preface of her worthy praise;the chief perfections of that lovely dame,had i sufficient skill to utter them,would make a volume of enticing lines,able to ravish any dull conceit;and,which is more,she is not so divine,so full replete with choice of all delights,but with as humble lowliness of mind she is content to be at your command;command,i mean,of virtuous chaste intents,to love and honour henry as her lord.
now help,or woe betide thee evermore!
i am glad ont.
the red wine first must rise in their fair cheeks,my lord;then we shall have em talk us to silence.
that will be music.
cover thy head,cover thy head.
lo here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit of an old tear that is not washd off yet.
the king by this is set him down to sleep.
guiderius and arviragus.
speak,speak,speak.
what man dost thou dig it for?
as fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney,as your french crown for your taffety punk,as tibs rush for toms forefinger,as a pancake for shrove-tuesday,a morris for may-day,as the nail to his hole,the cuckold to his horn,as a scolding quean to a wrangling knave,as the nuns lip to the friars mouth;nay,as the pudding to his skin.
your husbands coming hither,woman,with all the officers in windsor,to search for a gentleman that he says is here now in the house,by your consent,to take an ill advantage of his absence.
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
away,then!
what,will these hands neer be clean?
come your ways,come your ways;and you draw backward,well put you i th fills.
what a gods gold,that he is worshipped in a baser temple than where swine feed!
the people are abused,set on.
no better,if you please.
so he doth you,my lord,and said this other day you ought him a thousand pound.
i could find in my heart to beat him,come,kiss.
you speak it out of fear and cold heart.
where is thy faith?
how sayst thou,that macduff denies his person at our great bidding?
know you not the cause?
imitariis nothing:so doth the hound his master,the ape his keeper,the tired horse his rider.
but fare you well,i have some business.
was it not to refresh the mind of man after his studies or his usual pain?
i could have kept a hawk and well have hallowed to a deep cry of dogs.
no more my fortune can but curse the cause i cannot aid the man.
from seventeen years till now almost fourscore here lived i,but now live here no more.
a deed without a name.
but,sir,to love concerneth us to add her fathers liking;which to bring to pass,as i before imparted to your worship,i am to get a man,whateer he be it skills not much;well fit him to our turn,and he shall be vincentio of pisa,and make assurance here in padua,of greater sums than i have promised.
good uncle,tell your tale.
i need not be ashamd of your majesty,praised be god,so long as your majesty is an honest man.
i find thee apt;and duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed that rots itself in ease on lethe wharf,wouldst thou not stir in this.
o,behold,the riches of the ship is come on shore!
o word divine!
new customs,though they be never so ridiculous nay,let em be unmanlyyet are followed.
my old friend grumio!
and so,sir john,farewell.
what colour is this cloak of?
so to the laws at large i write my name,and he that breaks them in the least degree stands in attainder of eternal shame.
yet,i remember,when i was in france,young gentlemen would be as sad as night,only for wantonness.
to wake a wolf is as bad as smell a fox.
ride you this afternoon?
your oaths are passed,and now subscribe your names,that his own hand may strike his honour down that violates the smallest branch herein.
more would i,but my lungs are wasted so that strength of speech is utterly denied me.
but she,being mortal,of that boy did die;and for her sake do i rear up her boy,and for her sake i will not part with him.
item,she will often praise her liquor.
i am revenge,sent from th infernal kingdom to ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind by working wreakful vengeance on thy foes.
sweet prince,let me go no farther to mine answer:do you hear me,and let this count kill me.
myself was from verona banished for practising to steal away a lady,an heir,and near allied unto the duke.
thus hath he sworn,and i with him,and many more with me,upon the altar at saint edmundsbury;even on that altar where we swore to you dear amity and everlasting love.
if you think well to carry this as you may,the doubleness of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.
ask god for temprance.
for,gentle hearers,know to rank our chosen truth with such a show as fool and fight is,beside forfeiting our own brains and the opinion that we bring to make that only true we now intend,will leave us never an understanding friend.
help,help!
now,mongst this flock of drunkards,am i to put our cassio in some action that may offend the isle.
draw near,ye people.
indeed,sir,to my cost.
some bloody passion shakes your very frame.
have you collected them by tribes?
i do,and charge you in the dukes name to obey me.
it is your former promise.
have you your fathers leave?
why so sadly greet you our victory?
as womans love.
i swear again i would not be a queen for all the world.
come,blow thy blast.
disorder,horror,fear,and mutiny shall here inhabit,and this land be called the field of golgotha and dead mens skulls.
o my word,the fathers son!
youre meek and humble-mouthed;you sign your place and calling,in full seeming,with meekness and humility;but your heart is crammed with arrogancy,spleen,and pride.
you are welcome.
undaunted spirit in a dying breast!
for ever,and for ever,farewell,cassius.
prythee,see there!
what,gertrude?
would i could meet him,madam!
i go,my lord.
oman,forbear.
here in this place ill set a bank of rue,sour herb of grace.
o helicanus,down on thy knees,thank the holy gods as loud as thunder threatens us:this is marina.
gracious madam,i that do bring the news made not the match.
boy,let me see the writing.
speak no more of him.
this fellow is wise enough to play the fool,and to do that well,craves a kind of wit:he must observe their mood on whom he jests,the quality of persons,and the time,and like the haggard,check at every feather that comes before his eye.
if,biondello,thou wert come ashore,we could at once put us in readiness,and take a lodging fit to entertain such friends as time in padua shall beget.
why then,fly on;ill hunt thee for thy hide.
we charge you,on allegiance to ourself,to hold your slaughtering hands and keep the peace.
but ere i name him,you fair lords,quoth she,speaking to those that came with collatine,shall plight your honourable faiths to me,with swift pursuit to venge this wrong of mine;for tis a meritorious fair design to chase injustice with revengeful arms.
but to speak that in words which his eye hath disclosed.
but that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,life would not yield to age.
give me the crown.
i have no tongue but one.
i heard them reported in the battle to be the only doers.
i understand you not.
o,how mine eyes do loathe his visage now!
if your peevish chastity,which is not worth a breakfast in the cheapest country under the cope,shall undo a whole household,let me be gelded like a spaniel.
tis bitter.
thoudst shun a bear;but if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,thoudst meet the bear i the mouth.
then let me hear of you,my gentle cousin westmoreland,what yesternight our council did decree in forwarding this dear expedience.
come,brother,let us to the highest of the field,to see what friends are living,who are dead.
but how did you desire it should be made?
by jupiter,this shall not be revokd.
fears make devils of cherubins;they never see truly.
and i for suchlike petty crimes as these.
and have you?
thou hast seen these signs.
run to the capitol,and nothing else?
and,good lieutenant,i think you think i love you.
or have we some strange indian with the great tool come to court,the women so besiege us?
ill set her on;myself the while to draw the moor apart,and bring him jump when he may cassio find soliciting his wife.
this is he,who hath upon him still that natural stamp.
i have read the cause of his effects in galen.
must these have voices,that can yield them now and straight disclaim their tongues?
she hath despisd me rejoicingly,and ill be merry in my revenge.
to bed,to bed.
we have no good that we can say is ours,but ill-annexed opportunity or kills his life or else his quality.
my lord?
do not,for one repulse,forgo the purpose that you resolvd to effect.
have you not known the worthiest men have donet?
all his successors,gone before him hath donet;and all his ancestors that come after him may.
once more adieu.
he hath indeed a good outward happiness.
thrice nobler than myself!
ay marry ist;and to my mind,though i am native here,and to the manner born,it is a custom more honourd in the breach than the observance.
here stands the spring whom you have stained with mud,this goodly summer with your winter mixed.
whats the matter?
indeed,my lord,if i had thought the sight of my poor image would thus have wrought youfor the stone is mine id not have showd it.
you must be seeing christenings?
i will not hear thee speak.
behold,mine arm is like a blasted sapling withered up!
beauty itself doth of itself persuade the eyes of men without an orator;what needeth then apologies be made,to set forth that which is so singular?
i cannot speak of this.
this shadowy desert,unfrequented woods,i better brook than flourishing peopled towns.
why should he follow?
read this schedule.
at once,good night:stand not upon the order of your going,but go at once.
before king henrys pavilion.
i have promised to make all this matter even.
our purses shall be proud,our garments poor for tis the mind that makes the body rich;and as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,so honour peereth in the meanest habit.
go to your rest,at night well feast together:.
and how achieved you these endowments,which you make more rich to owe?
iago beckons me.
is love a generation of vipers?
which when her sad-beholding husband saw,amazedly in her sad face he stares.
so,now go tell,an if thy tongue can speak,who twas that cut thy tongue and ravished thee.
content thyself.
yet be sad,good brothers,for,by my faith,it very well becomes you.
albeit i will confess thy fathers wealth was the first motive that i wooed thee,anne,yet,wooing thee,i found thee of more value than stamps in gold or sums in sealed bags.
o curse of marriage,that we can call these delicate creatures ours,and not their appetites!
and so swear i.
my lord,tis nothing.
well,sir,we must have you find your legs.
i remember.
will you be gone?
i may not answer.
catesby reenters.
i looked he should have sent me two and twenty yards of satin,as i am a true knight,and he sends me security.
my wife,my liege!
in faith,shes too curst.
here do i choose,and thrive i as i may.
upon the stroke of ten.
me well;which is the prescript praise and perfection of a good and particular mistress.
remember who you are.
why,how now,general?
let me go with him.
wheres satisfaction?
pray you then,conduct me to the queen.
i pray you home to dinner with me.
bless thee,good mans son,from the foul fiend!
will you grant with me that ferdinand is drownd?
ill keep you company.
o,i am pressed to death through want of speaking!
i know the good king and queen have sent for you.
a porter an old shepherd,father to joan la pucelle margaret,daughter to reignier,afterwards married to king henry countess of auvergne joan la pucelle,commonly called joan of arc lords,warders of the tower,heralds,officers,soldiers,messengers,and attendants.
go to;ill make ye know your times of business.
so i do.
to ha!
and see where comes the breeder of my sorrow.
what may i call your name?
and will you,being a man of your breeding,be married under a bush like a beggar?
thy life did manifest thou lovedst me not,and thou wilt have me die assured of it.
thy garments are not spotted with our blood,nor thou within the compass of my curse.
but i will aggravate my voice so,that i will roar you as gently as any sucking dove;i will roar you an twere any nightingale.
away,away,mad ass!
senseless bauble,art thou a fedary for this act,and lookst so virgin-like without?
no,sir;but you have that in your countenance which i would fain call master.
here,peter quince.
ill follow thee,and make a heaven of hell,to die upon the hand i love so well.
well see what may be done,so you confess freely.
jog on,jog on,the footpath way,and merrily hent the stile-a:a merry heart goes all the day,your sad tires in a mile-a.
is it so long?
be thus when thou art dead,and i will kill thee,and love thee after.
we doubt not of a fair and lucky war,since god so graciously hath brought to light this dangerous treason lurking in our way to hinder our beginnings.
pray,sir,to th army.
very well.
he will not out,he.
what comes the general to speak with me?
if fires be hot,knives sharp,or waters deep,untied i still my virgin knot will keep.
i thank him for his gentle patience;hes a kind gentleman,and i am much bound to him.
then speak the truth by her;if not divine,yet let her be a principality,sovereign to all the creatures on the earth.
nay,had i power,i should pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,uproar the universal peace,confound all unity on earth.
what news,borachio?
what would you say to me now,an i were your very,very rosalind?
no,my lord,nor shall not while i have a stump.
jack rugby!
i would the milk thy mother gave thee when thou suckdst her breast had been a little ratsbane for thy sake!
give me thy hand.
ay,my lord,this same.
for the formin some form.
your royal presences be ruld by me:do like the mutines of jerusalem,be friends awhile,and both conjointly bend your sharpest deeds of malice on this town:by east and west let france and england mount their battering cannon charged to the mouths,till their soul-fearing clamours have brawld down the flinty ribs of this contemptuous city:id play incessantly upon these jades,even till unfenced desolation leave them as naked as the vulgar air.
but if the first heir of my invention prove deformed,i shall be sorry it had so noble a godfather,and never after ear so barren a land,for fear it yield me still so bad a harvest.
will you walk,sir?
ambitious love hath so in me offended that barefoot plod i the cold ground upon,with sainted vow my faults to have amended.
hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee do not plunge thyself too far in anger,lest thou hasten thy trial;which iflord have mercy on thee for a hen!
in truth,la,go with me,and ill tell you excellent news of your husband.
we make ourselves fools to disport ourselves,and spend our flatteries to drink those men upon whose age we void it up again with poisonous spite and envy.
that is my rest,that is the rendezvous of it.
peace,i have done.
what!
you have said,sir.
here at the door.
o,she knew well thy love did read by rote,that could not spell.
have at you with another:thatswhen?
abate throw at novum,and the whole world again cannot pick out five such,take each one in his vein.
bear them from hence.
a lovers complaint from off a hill whose concave womb reworded a plaintful story from a sistring vale,my spirits tattend this double voice accorded,and down i laid to list the sad-tund tale;ere long espied a fickle maid full pale,tearing of papers,breaking rings a-twain,storming her world with sorrows wind and rain.
did you confer with him?
i know not,an t like you.
articles are borrowed of the pronoun,and be thus declined:singulariter,nominativo,hic,haec,hoc.
becandidatusthen,and put it on,and help to set a head on headless rome.
say no more.
she said so.
come,boy,and go with me.
i hardly yet have learned to insinuate,flatter,bow,and bend my knee.
ay,if i be alive,and your mind hold,and your dinner worth the eating.
safe in a ditch he bides,with twenty trenched gashes on his head;the least a death to nature.
but found no cure,the bath for my help lies,where cupid got new fire;my mistress eyes.
being i th war,their mutinies and revolts,wherein they showed most valour,spoke not for them.
i run before king harrys victory,who in a bloody field by shrewsbury hath beaten down young hotspur and his troops,quenching the flame of bold rebellion even with the rebels blood.
the drum playing and trumpet sounding,enter warwick,somerset,and the rest,bringing the king out in his gown,sitting in a chair.
to france,sweet suffolk!
some lay in dead mens skulls,and in the holes where eyes did once inhabit there were crept as twere in scorn of eyesreflecting gems,that wooed the slimy bottom of the deep,and mocked the dead bones that lay scattered by.
well,masters,good night:an there be any matter of weight chances,call up me:keep your fellows counsels and your own,and good night.
well,proceed.
dwell i but in the suburbs of your good pleasure?
look,hes winding up the watch of his wit;by and by it will strike.
tis well that i get it so.
the gods forbid else!
and hes as like to dot as any man i can imagine.
ah,sirrah,by my fay,it waxes late,ill to my rest.
o wicked wall,through whom i see no bliss,cursd be thy stones for thus deceiving me!
in loving thee thou knowst i am forsworn,but thou art twice forsworn to me love swearing,in act thy bed-vow broke and new faith torn,in vowing new hate after new love bearing:but why of two oaths breach do i accuse thee,when i break twenty?
prithee,kill me.
what shall be done?
for being a bawd,for being a bawd.
vouchsafe to wear this ring.
thou canst not frown,thou canst not look askance,nor bite the lip,as angry wenches will,nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk;but thou with mildness entertainst thy wooers;with gentle conference,soft and affable.
our italy shines oer with civil swords;sextus pompeius makes his approaches to the port of rome;equality of two domestic powers breed scrupulous faction;the hated,grown to strength,are newly grown to love;the condemned pompey,rich in his fathers honour,creeps apace into the hearts of such as have not thrived upon the present state,whose numbers threaten;and quietness,grown sick of rest,would purge by any desperate change.
start,eyes!
these present wars shall find i love my country,even to the note o th king,or ill fall in them.
here she comes weeping for her only mistress death.
let music sound while he doth make his choice.
peace,i say,gallia and gaul,french and welsh,soul-curer and body-curer!
lorenzo,i commit into your hands the husbandry and manage of my house until my lords return.
but i will tarry;the fool will stay,and let the wise man fly:the knave turns fool that runs away;the fool no knave perdy.
well,i beseech you,let it be proclaimed.
and shalt be ever.
my lord,in truth,thus far i witness with him,that he dind not at home,but was lockd out.
thy thoughts i cleave to.
god is our fortress,in whose conquering name let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.
thy gown?
make you a sword of me?
let me see now,to get his place,and to plume up my will in double knavery.
my master loves her dearly,and i,poor monster,fond as much on him,and she,mistaken,seems to dote on me.
i speak not to disprove what brutus spoke,but here i am to speak what i do know.
i have taen a due and wary note upont;with whispering and most guilty diligence,in action all of precept,he did show me the way twice oer.
was caius lucius in the britain court when you were there?
come and take choice of all my library,and so beguile thy sorrow,till the heavens reveal the damned contriver of this deed.
you shortly shall hear more.
at my cousin cressidas?
did you find me in yourself,sir?
there rest.
i knew twas i,for many do call me fool.
falstaff,an t please your lordship.
let boors and franklins say it,ill swear it.
horns,and shout within.
and theres a rock lies watching under water;now,now,it beats upon it;now,now,now,theres a leak sprung,a sound one!
and you must cut this flesh from off his breast.
to dover.
for now i feel compassion.
good my lord,put your discourse into some frame,and start not so wildly from my affair.
hold him in safety till the prince come hither.
you know not whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land.
a grave?
you are undone,captain:all but your scarf;that has a knot ont yet.
god amend us,god amend!
take to thy grace me,thy vowed soldier,who do bear thy yoke as twere a wreath of roses,yet is heavier than lead itself,stings more than nettles.
will you hear more?
ay,timon.
you came not of one mother then,it seems.
tis hard;almost impossible.
lets not meet her.
while that the armed hand doth fight abroad,the advised head defends itself at home;for government,though high and low and lower,put into parts,doth keep in one consent,congreeing in a full and natural close,like music.
your blessing,sir.
come,thou new ruin of old cliffords house;as did aeneas old anchises bear,so bear i thee upon my manly shoulders;but then aeneas bare a living load,nothing so heavy as these woes of mine.
god save you,madam.
would the two princes lie?
is there no exorcist beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
speak on,sir;i dare your worst objections.
and tell us what occasion of import hath all so long detaind you from your wife,and sent you hither so unlike yourself?
i can tell you both her suit is granted for her husbands lands.
so deal with him as i prove true to you.
touching this vision here,it is an honest ghost,that let me tell you.
heavens face doth glow,yea this solidity and compound mass,with tristful visage,as against the doom,is thought-sick at the act.
the state whereon i studied is,like a good thing being often read,grown sere and tedious;yea,my gravity,whereinlet no man hear mei take pride,could i with boot change for an idle plume which the air beats for vain.
o thou wall that girdles in those wolves,dive in the earth and fence not athens!
ay me!
jailer,take him to thy custody.
of you,my noble cousin,lord aumerle;not sick,although i have to do with death,but lusty,young,and cheerly drawing breath.
cry you mercy,i took you for a joint-stool.
i,old morgan,am that belarius whom you sometime banishd.
to thee no star be dark!
take it up straight:within this hour bring me word tis done,and by good testimony,or ill seize thy life,with that thou else callst thine.
lavinia,you are not displeased with this?
yes,my lord,her father is a king,the king of naples and jerusalem;and of such great authority in france as his alliance will confirm our peace,and keep the frenchmen in allegiance.
did you see him?
may you a better feast never behold,you knot of mouth-friends!
two props of virtue for a christian prince,to stay him from the fall of vanity;and,see,a book of prayer in his hand,true ornaments to know a holy man.
do but look up.
thy lustre thickens when he shines by.
for present vengeance,take it on her.
not hercules could have knockd out his brains,for he had none;yet i not doing this,the fool had borne my head as i do his.
so the gods preserve thee!
speak not of helena;take not her part;for if thou dost intend never so little show of love to her,thou shalt aby it.
now,sir,a new link to the bucket must needs be had.
shes far enough;and what he learns by this may prove his travel,not her danger.
bid him levy straight the greatest strength and power that he can make,and meet me suddenly at salisbury.
between you i shall have a holy head.
go to,then.
where be these knaves?
no messenger but thine,and all alone tonight well wander through the streets and note the qualities of people.
ist so?
such a nature,tickled with good success,disdains the shadow which he treads on at noon.
tis a good hand,a frank one.
what shall i do?
for shame,my lord of winchester,relent!
be plain,good son,and homely in thy drift;riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
each thing melts in mere oppugnancy:the bounded waters should lift their bosoms higher than the shores,and make a sop of all this solid globe;strength should be lord of imbecility,and the rude son should strike his father dead;force should be right;or,rather,right and wrong between whose endless jar justice resides should lose their names,and so should justice too.
no,yonder tis;there,where we see the lights.
avaunt,thou witch!
a song,whilst bassanio comments on the caskets to himself.
come,come,we fear the worst;all will be well.
i,perhaps,speak this before a willing bondman:then i know my answer must be made;but i am armd,and dangers are to me indifferent.
strike,you slave;stand,rogue,stand;you neat slave,strike!
o villain,thou hast stolen both mine office and my name;the one neer got me credit,the other mickle blame.
and ill sleep.
honest iago,my desdemona must i leave to thee.
i will tell it softly,yond crickets shall not hear it.
foul weather?
resolve on this;thou shalt be fortunate if thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
speak,wilt have him live?
methinks you are my glass,and not my brother.
now tell me,proteus,whats your will with me?
you did know how much you were my conqueror,and that my sword,made weak by my affection,would obey it on all cause.
now,by this maiden blossom in my hand,i scorn thee and thy fashion,peevish boy.
how shall i understand you?
there was for a while,no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question.
lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
nay,come,agree whose hand shall go along,for fear they die before their pardon come.
and,in some taste,is lepidus but so:he must be taught,and traind,and bid go forth:a barren-spirited fellow;one that feeds on objects,arts,and imitations,which,out of use and stald by other men,begin his fashion.
burn,house!
yet tellst thou not how thou wert entertaind.
madam,his majesty doth call for you,and for your grace,and you,my gracious lords.
and now,good sweet,say thy opinion,how dost thou like the lord bassanios wife?
markd ye his words?
o woe!
look ye,how they change!
well,god give thee the spirit of persuasion,and him the ears of profiting,that what thou speakest may move,and what he hears may be believed,that the true prince may,for recreation sake,prove a false thief,for the poor abuses of the time want countenance.
whither should they come?
ere i would say i would drown myself for the love of a guinea-hen,i would change my humanity with a baboon.
such are not we.
for your own ladies and pale-visagd maids like amazons come tripping after drums,their thimbles into armed gauntlets change,their needles to lances,and their gentle hearts to fierce and bloody inclination.
i like this fair proceeding of the kings.
depressed he is already,and deposed tis doubt he will be.
nay,now the sound is arcite.
and you re us and fa us,you note us.
where is your son?
what old womans that?
metst thou my posts?
so long as nature will bear up with this exercise,so long i daily vow to use it.
work,work your thoughts,and therein see a siege;behold the ordnance on their carriages,with fatal mouths gaping on girded harfleur.
what though you fled from that great face of war,whose several ranges frighted each other?
fair portias counterfeit!
if we prevail,their heads shall pay for it.
from scotland am i stolen,even of pure love,to greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
yet hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
though you have put me into darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over me,yet have i the benefit of my senses as well as your ladyship.
here she exclaims against repose and rest,and bids her eyes hereafter still be blind.
i will be cheaters to them both,and they shall be exchequers to me;they shall be my east and west indies,and i will trade to them both.
well have we done,thrice valiant countrymen.
nay,come away.
well call thee at the cubiculo.
safely stowed.
bardolph,look to our horses.
look whether he have not crownd dead cassius!
muse not that i thus suddenly proceed,for what i will,i will,and there an end.
look how it steals away!
but thy vile race,though thou didst learn,had that in t which good natures could not abide to be with;therefore wast thou deservedly confind into this rock,who hadst deservd more than a prison.
well too.
but that is not the question.
in nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,and thence this slander as i think proceeds.
now,what moved me tot,i will be bold with time and your attention.
stand forth,and with bold spirit relate what you,most like a careful subject,have collected out of the duke of buckingham.
she says you have some goodly jest in hand:she will not come;she bids you come to her.
art thou god to shepherd turned,that a maidens heart hath burned?
speak i like herne the hunter?
this is illyria,lady.
iago,who begant?
i do not bid thee beg my life,good lad,and yet i know thou wilt.
ay,but the feet were lame and could not bear themselves without the verse,and therefore stood lamely in the verse.
drones hive not with me,therefore i part with him,and part with him to one that i would have him help to waste his borrowed purse.
most resolute pompey!
censure me in your wisdom,and awake your senses,that you may the better judge.
great lords,from ireland am i come amain to signify that rebels there are up and put the englishmen unto the sword.
flourish of cornets.
o yes,an twere a cloud in autumn!
he was torn to pieces with a bear:this avouches the shepherds son,who has not only his innocence,which seems much,to justify him,but a handkerchief and rings of his that paulina knows.
i hear you.
come,come,no longer will i be a fool,to put the finger in the eye and weep whilst man and master laughs my woes to scorn.
no,sir;he stays for you to conduct him thither.
call up her father,rouse him,make after him,poison his delight,proclaim him in the streets;incense her kinsmen,and though he in a fertile climate dwell,plague him with flies:though that his joy be joy,yet throw such changes of vexation ont,as it may lose some color.
sit you down,father;rest you.
i humbly beseech you,proceed to the affairs of state.
lean raw-bond rascals!
by the sound of drum you may perceive their powers are marching unto paris-ward.
marry,hang you!
i heard him swear his affection.
before my body i throw my warlike shield:lay on,macduff;and damnd be him that first cries,hold,enough!
give me those flowers.
therein the patient must minister to himself.
i,an old turtle,will wing me to some witherd bough,and there my mate,thats never to be found again,lament till i am lost.
fie,fie,fie,fie!
he should have lived,save that his riotous youth,with dangerous sense,might in the times to come have taen revenge by so receiving a dishonoured life with ransom of such shame.
well,sir,to do you courtesy,this will i do,and this i will advise you:first,tell me,have you ever been at pisa?
ye speak like honest men;pray god ye prove so.
which of you know ford of this town?
you some permit to second ills with ills,each elder worse,and make them dread it,to the doers thrift.
o,i should have a heavy miss of thee if i were much in love with vanity.
what then?
one that was a woman,sir;but,rest her soul,shes dead.
how many weary steps of many weary miles you have oergone are numbered in the travel of one mile?
here in the sands thee ill rake up,the post unsanctified of murderous lechers:and in the mature time,with this ungracious paper strike the sight of the death-practisd duke:for him tis well that of thy death and business i can tell.
and that letter hath she delivered,and there an end.
have i lived thus longlet me speak myself,since virtue finds no friendsa wife,a true one a woman,i dare say without vainglory,never yet branded with suspicion have i with all my full affections still met the king,loved him next heavn,obeyed him,been,out of fondness,superstitious to him,almost forgot my prayers to content him,and am i thus rewarded?
pack night,peep day;good day,of night now borrow:short,night,tonight,and length thyself tomorrow.
they have tied me to a stake.
thou art too brief.
his ransom there is none but i shall pay.
and shall do so ever,though i took him at his prayers.
can thy spirit wonder a great man should decline?
to be young again,if we could:i will be a fool in question,hoping to be the wiser by your answer.
is it even so?
mockwater,in our english tongue,is valour,bully.
a thousand hearts are great within my bosom.
a paltry,insolent fellow!
vere is mine host de jarteer?
you are too old,sir;let it satisfy you,you are too old.
phoebe did write it.
my lord?
all the regions do smilingly revolt,and who resists are mocked for valiant ignorance and perish constant fools.
and yet he has not thanked me for what i have done;no,not so much as kissed me,and that,methinks,is not so well;nor scarcely could i persuade him to become a free man,he made such scruples of the wrong he did to me and to my father.
finch egg!
sir pool!
so,now bring them in,for ill play the cook,and see them ready against their mother comes.
poor soul,his eyes are red as fire with weeping.
no noise,my lord;but needful conference about some gossips for your highness.
i say,i am your mother.
an if an angel should have come to me and told me hubert should put out mine eyes,i would not have believd him.
indeed i must not.
sir,it calls,i fear,too many curses on their heads that were the authors.
i cannot be a man with wishing,therefore i will die a woman with grieving.
wherefore weep you?
nay,if we be forbidden stones,well fall to it with our teeth.
good boy,in virgos lap!
god safely quit her of her burden,and with gentle travail,to the gladding of your highness with an heir!
and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
faith,the priest was good enough,for all the old gentlemans saying.
what likelihood of his amendment,lords?
pray let us follow em.
thine eye begins to speak,set thy tongue there,or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear,that,hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,pity may move thee pardon to rehearse.
sort how it will,i shall have gold for all.
get you home and fetch the chain,by this i know tis made.
royal queen!
therefore,precisely,can you carry your good will to the maid?
and if i be,sir,is it any offence?
do not bid me dismiss my soldiers or capitulate again with romes mechanics.
ill call sir toby the whilst.
here is no use for gold.
nay,then you jest;and now i well perceive you have but jested with me all this while:i prithee,sister kate,untie my hands.
these violent delights have violent ends,and in their triumph die;like fire and powder,which as they kiss consume.
wife,we scarce thought us blest that god had lent us but this only child;but now i see this one is one too much,and that we have a curse in having her.
is it even so?
but some untimely thought did instigate his all-too-timeless speed,if none of those;his honour,his affairs,his friends,his state,neglected all,with swift intent he goes to quench the coal which in his liver glows.
to sing a song that old was sung,from ashes ancient gower is come;assuming mans infirmities,to glad your ear,and please your eyes.
go sound thy trumpet in the marketplace.
lay hands upon him,and bear him to the rock.
o,ay,as summer flies are in the shambles,that quicken even with blowing.
alack,how may i do it?
let specialities be therefore drawn between us,that covenants may be kept on either hand.
cry holla!
whats the news in rome?
nay,faith,ill see the church o your back;and then come back to my masters as soon as i can.
say she shall be a high and mighty queen.
i would i had been there.
a contagious breath.
what stature is she of?
i would we were well rid of this knavery.
wrath makes him deaf;speak thou,northumberland.
that done,despitefully i mean to bear thee unto the base bed of some rascal groom,to be thy partner in this shameful doom.
it would make any man cold to lose.
lets have no more of this;lets to our affairs.
marry,i saw your niece do more favours to the counts servingman than ever she bestowed upon me;i sawt i th orchard.
why have i blabbd?
yes,to pay a fine for a periwig,and recover the lost hair of another man.
tis not unknown to you,antonio,how much i have disabled mine estate by something showing a more swelling port than my faint means would grant continuance.
other slow arts entirely keep the brain,and therefore,finding barren practisers,scarce show a harvest of their heavy toil;but love,first learned in a ladys eyes,lives not alone immured in the brain,but with the motion of all elements courses as swift as thought in every power,and gives to every power a double power,above their functions and their offices.
yet do not go away;come,basilisk,and kill the innocent gazer with thy sight.
knight,knight,good mother,basilisco-like.
to bed,to bed,to bed.
she died at night;ill say so.
for i know theres none stands under more calumnious tongues than i myself,poor man.
but in this kind,wanting your fathers voice,the other must be held the worthier.
and shall,sir.
i know no ways to mince it in love,but directly to say,i love you;then if you urge me farther than to say,do you in faith?
is a not?
i think it freely;and betimes in the morning i will beseech the virtuous desdemona to undertake for me;i am desperate of my fortunes if they check me here.
you shall have gold to pay the petty debt twenty times over.
tell me,loves master,shall we meet tomorrow say,shall we?
no,ill not meddle.
be not offended:i speak not as in absolute fear of you.
he is but a knight,is he?
such news,my lord,as grieves me to report.
our gates,which yet seem shut,we have but pinned with rushes.
come,bustle,bustle!
o lamentable day!
wear this;spare speech;decline your head.
go,drag the villain hither by the hair;nor age nor honour shall shape privilege.
if thou couldst,doctor,cast the water of my land,find her disease,and purge it to a sound and pristine health,i would applaud thee to the very echo,that should applaud again.
then for the place,where?
well touse you joint by joint,but we will know his purpose.
wake,my mistress!
widow,go you along.
they swore that you were almost sick for me.
teach thy necessity to reason thus:there is no virtue like necessity.
thou shalt be loggerhead.
things growing are not ripe until their season;so i,being young,till now ripe not to reason;and touching now the point of human skill,reason becomes the marshal to my will,and leads me to your eyes,where i oerlook loves stories,written in loves richest book.
sir,sir!
to express the like kindness,myself,that have been more kindly beholding to you than any,freely give unto you this young scholar,that has been long studying at rheims;as cunning in greek,latin,and other languages,as the other in music and mathematics.
art thou obdurate,flinty,hard as steel?
give me my boots,i say.
thy pains,fitzwater,shall not be forgot.
the duke and senators of venice greet you.
for mine own part,i am,as they say,but to parfect one man in one poor manpompion the great,sir.
conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
go,sirrah,trudge about through fair verona;find those persons out whose names are written there,and to them say,my house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
tis hard:a young man married is a man thats marrd.
lo now,if it lay in their hands to make me a cuckold,they would make themselves whores but theyd dot!
thy honour,state,and seat,is due to me.
follow his torch;he goes to calchas tent;ill keep you company.
and yet to times in hope,my verse shall stand praising thy worth,despite his cruel hand.
now,antony,our hopes are answered.
thou liest,thou art not colted,thou art uncolted.
let his grace go forward and dare us with his cap,like larks.
i hear him coming.
in a town of war,yet wild,the peoples hearts brimful of fear,to manage private and domestic quarrel,in night,and on the court and guard of safety?
o jupiter,no blood!
why,he but sleeps.
do you stop your ears?
know they not achilles?
then have at thee,boy!
it is a day turnd strangely.
pray heartily he be at palace.
yes,sir,i have indeed.
now the lord lighten thee,thou art a great fool.
it is,it is!
give place!
i have a salt and sorry rheum offends me.
ten thousand worse than ever yet i did would i perform,if i might have my will.
o fates,come,come;cut thread and thrum;quail,rush,conclude,and quell!
not for all this land would i be guilty of so deep a sin.
here is for thy pains.
at my depart i gave this unto julia.
most damned angelo!
yet,though i distrust,discomfort you,my lord,it nothing must:for womens fear and love holds quantity,in neither aught,or in extremity.
first,it was usual with himevery day it would infect his speechthat if the king should without issue die,hell carry it so to make the sceptre his.
besides,youll find a most unfit time to disturb him.
ay,and we are betrothed;nay more,our marriage hour,with all the cunning manner of our flight,determined of:how i must climb her window,the ladder made of cords,and all the means plotted and greed on for my happiness.
was she in health,sir?
come,come,youll do him wrong ere you are ware;youll be so true to him to be false to him.
what should i think ont?
hath he borne himself penitently in prison?
my resolutions placed,and i have nothing of woman in me.
i wish no better than have him hold that purpose and to put it in execution.
if he do not dote on her upon this,i will never trust my expectation.
wheres dolabella,to second proculeius?
no,lord ambassador,ill rather keep that which i have than,coveting for more,be cast from possibility of all.
we will meet,and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously.
even here she sheathed in her harmless breast a harmful knife,that thence her soul unsheathed.
thou hast amazd me.
why at our justice seemst thou then to lour?
there is no way but this,sir andrew.
count the clock.
i am advised to give her music a mornings;they say it will penetrate.
snug have you the lions part written?
nor anyone.
why dost thou lash that whore?
this said,in top of rage the lines she rents,big discontent so breaking their contents.
when truth and virtue have to do with thee,a thousand crosses keep them from thy aid;they buy thy help;but sin neer gives a fee;he gratis comes,and thou art well appaid as well to hear as grant what he hath said.
twas of some estate.
sir,a chartreux friar,his confessor,who fed him every minute with words of sovereignty.
a plague on thee!
no more evasion.
and i thank thee,king,for thy great bounty,that not only givst me cause to wail,but teachest me the way how to lament the cause.
at this instant he bores me with some trick.
o,peace!
nay,indeed,if you had your eyes,you might fail of the knowing me:it is a wise father that knows his own child.
goes the king hence today?
where should othello go?
show me a thousand that hath done thee wrong,and i will be revenged on them all.
the same indeed,a very valiant fellow.
i twice five hundred,and their friends to piece em.
a fire,good curtis.
this above all:to thine own self be true;and it must follow,as the night the day,thou canst not then be false to any man.
her husbands to aleppo gone,master o thtiger:but in a sieve ill thither sail,and,like a rat without a tail,ill do,ill do,and ill do.
he,being in the vaward,placd behind with purpose to relieve and follow them,cowardly fled,not having struck one stroke.
now the time is come that france must vail her lofty-plumed crest and let her head fall into englands lap.
world,world,o world!
comfort me,counsel me.
for thou shalt hear that i,knowing by paulina that the oracle gave hope thou wast in being,have preservd myself to see the issue.
what offends you,lady?
it is his policy to haste thus fast,to find us unprovided.
you have won.
now,by the world,it is a lusty wench!
what angel shall bless this unworthy husband?
i perceive,these lords at this encounter do so much admire that they devour their reason,and scarce think their eyes do offices of truth,their words are natural breath;but,howsoeer you have been justled from your senses,know for certain that i am prospero,and that very duke which was thrust forth of milan;who most strangely upon this shore,where you were wrackd,was landed to be the lord ont.
i shoot thee at the swain.
then prithee get thee away.
pray,sir,be patient.
we shall,noble captain.
return unto thy lord;bid him not fear the separated council.
ah,my good lord,what have i seen tonight!
my lord,i over-rode him on the way,and he is furnishd with no certainties more than he haply may retail from me.
and ever and anon they made a doubt presence majestical would put him out;for,quoth the king,an angel shalt thou see;yet fear not thou,but speak audaciously.
lady,i shall not fail t approve the fair conceit the king hath of you.
i dare not say,from the rich cardinal and from the great and new-made duke of suffolk,yet i do find it so.
thou hast by moonlight at her window sung,with feigning voice,verses of feigning love;and stoln the impression of her fantasy with bracelets of thy hair,rings,gauds,conceits,knacks,trifles,nosegays,sweetmeats(messengers of strong prevailment in unhardend youth)with cunning hast thou filchd my daughters heart,turnd her obedience(which is due to me)to stubborn harshness.
saucy fellow,hence!
and what wit could wit have to excuse that?
armd,say you?
o thou damned cur!
i calld my love false love;but what said he then?
what is the end of study,let me know?
if he took you a box o th ear,you might have your action of slander too.
good night.
persuasively,and cunningly.
but mark me;to be received plain,ill speak more gross.
maybe the knave bragged of that he could not compass.
sir,i will tell you;since i am chargd in honour,and by him that i think honourable.
rather rejoicing to see another merry,than merry at anything which professed to make him rejoice.
chirrah!
jack cade!
this world is not for aye;nor tis not strange that even our loves should with our fortunes change,for tis a question left us yet to prove,whether love lead fortune,or else fortune love.
a largess universal like the sun his liberal eye doth give to everyone,thawing cold fear,that mean and gentle all behold,as may unworthiness define,a little touch of harry in the night.
forgive me that i do not dream on thee,because thou seest me dote upon my love.
go,cleomenes;yourself,assisted with your honourd friends,bring them to our embracement.
i am a poor fellow,sir.
is it not strange that sheeps guts should hale souls out of mens bodies?
thy horses shall be trappd,their harness studded all with gold and pearl.
i am doubtful that you have been conjunct and bosomd with her,as far as we call hers.
tell him i humbly desire the valiant ajax to invite the most valorous hector to come unarmd to my tent;and to procure safe conduct for his person of the magnanimous and most illustrious six-or-seven-times-honourd captain general of the grecian army,agamemnon.
who,i?
this is clean cam.
thats mine,then.
nay,but his taunts.
infer fair englands peace by this alliance.
well but seal,and then to horse immediately.
this ill do for you.
thou hast bewitchd my daughter,and thou art a villain.
what think you,if he were conveyd to bed,wrappd in sweet clothes,rings put upon his fingers,a most delicious banquet by his bed,and brave attendants near him when he wakes,would not the beggar then forget himself?
two or three groan.
thy counsel,lad,smells of no cowardice.
west of this forest,scarcely off a mile,in goodly form comes on the enemy,and,by the ground they hide,i judge their number upon or near the rate of thirty thousand.
they say the french count has done most honourable service.
myself i throw,dread sovereign,at thy foot.
there is pretty orders beginning,i can tell you.
what call you rich?
when i was born:never was waves nor wind more violent;and from the ladder tackle washes off a canvas-climber.
when the sea is.
wishing it so much blood unto your life.
we have record that very well it can,and three examples of the like hath been within my age.
thus,my most royal liege,accusing it,i put it on my head,to try with it,as with an enemy that had before my face murderd my father,the quarrel of a true inheritor.
fie on myself,that have a sword and yet am ready to famish!
i never prospered since i forswore myself at primero.
no more.
for gods sake hold your hands.
i care not.
it is a simple one,but what though?
in private then.
i pray you,come,hold up the jest no higher.
the curse my noble father laid on thee when thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper,and with thy scorns drewst rivers from his eyes,and then to dry them,gavst the duke a clout steeped in the faultless blood of pretty rutland his curses then,from bitterness of soul denounced against thee,are all falln upon thee,and god,not we,hath plagued thy bloody deed.
for one sweet grape who will the vine destroy?
the lady constance speaks not from her faith,but from her need.
fight,bold yeomen!
i have some marks of yours upon my pate,some of my mistress marks upon my shoulders,but not a thousand marks between you both.
how now!
methinks i feel this youths perfections with an invisible and subtle stealth to creep in at mine eyes.
stay for an answer to your embassy,lest unadvisd you stain your swords with blood.
yet am i noble as the adversary i come to cope.
nay,hear you,kate:in sooth,you scape not so.
if thou hadst feared to break an oath by him,th imperial metal circling now thy head had graced the tender temples of my child,and both the princes had been breathing here,which now,two tender bedfellows for dust,thy broken faith hath made a prey for worms.
i will take your counsel.
but they do no more adhere and keep place together than the hundredth psalm to the tune of greensleeves.
has been told so;and he says hell stand at your door like a sheriffs post,and be the supporter of a bench,but hell speak with you.
i do not sleep:i see,i hear,i speak;i smell sweet savours,and i feel soft things:upon my life,i am a lord indeed;and not a tinker,nor christophero sly.
o noble fellow,who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,and when it bows,standst up!
i told her so,my lord,on your displeasures peril and on mine,she should not visit you.
cousin,farewell.
then pause not;for the present times so sick that present medcine must be ministred or overthrow incurable ensues.
and,by my soul,this pale and angry rose,as cognizance of my blood-drinking hate,will i for ever and my faction wear,until it wither with me to my grave,or flourish to the height of my degree.
beware macduff;beware the thane of fife.
wherefore do i this?
i shall sleep like a top else.
and so farewell,and fair be all thy hopes,and prosperous be thy life in peace and war!
at the dukes oak we meet.
be calm,good wind,blow not a word away till i have found each letter in the letter except mine own name.
lucy,farewell.
a peevish school-boy,worthless of such honour,joind with a masker and a reveller.
for antony,i have no ears to his request.
thank your majesty.
villain,not for thy life!
que dit-il,monsieur?
good grows with her.
this is a subtle whore,a closet lock and key of villainous secrets.
i warrant,and i should live a thousand years,i never should forget it.
to juliasay,from whom?
not a whit,we defy augury.
you would not come when i sent for you.
how now!
the appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony.
tis calld the evil:a most miraculous work in this good king;which often,since my here-remain in england,i have seen him do.
why,brother hector,we may not think the justness of each act such and no other than event doth form it;nor once deject the courage of our minds because cassandras mad.
there shall your swords and lances arbitrate the swelling difference of your settled hate.
stafford,take her to thee.
grace in all simplicity,here enclosd in cinders lie.
good my lord,like this fellow?
yes,marry,did i;but i was fain to forswear it.
i marvel how they would have looked had they been victors,that with such a constant nobility enforce a freedom out of bondage,making misery their mirth and affliction a toy to jest at.
then,come what can come,thou shalt know,palamon,i dare as well die,as discourse,or sleep.
here in this island we arrivd;and here have i,thy schoolmaster,made thee more profit than other princes can,that have more time for vainer hours,and tutors not so careful.
but quickly on this side the verdict went,his real habitude gave life and grace to appertainings and to ornament,accomplishd in himself,not in his case;all aids,themselves made fairer by their place,came for additions;yet their purposd trim piecd not his grace,but were all gracd by him.
i grant thou wert not married to my muse,and therefore mayst without attaint oerlook the dedicated words which writers use of their fair subject,blessing every book.
theres in all two worthy voices begged.
i will be satisfied:deny me this,and an eternal curse fall on you!
but this our purpose now is twelve month old,and bootless tis to tell you we will go;therefore we meet not now.
or that we would,against the form of law,proceed thus rashly in the villains death,but that the extreme peril of the case,the peace of england,and our persons safety,enforced us to this execution?
within my tent his bones tonight shall lie,most like a soldier,orderd honourably.
ay,my good lord,a very virtuous maid,and to be shortly of a sisterhood,if not already.
then go thou forth;and fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,as thy auspicious mistress!
therefore hear us.
some comfort we have by so considering.
master young man,you,i pray you;which is the way to master jews?
but what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed,one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?
patience,prince saturninus.
o,i am slain!
by good euriphile,our mother.
if the tag-rag people did not clap him and hiss him,according as he pleased and displeased them,as they use to do the players in the theatre,i am no true man.
my conscience says no;take heed,honest launcelet,take heed,honest gobbo or,as aforesaid,honest launcelet gobbo,do not run,scorn running with thy heels.
here love himself sits smiling;just such another wanton ganymede set jove afire with,and enforced the god snatch up the goodly boy and set him by him,a shining constellation.
what ist oclock?
our stars must glister with new fire,or be today extinct.
aufidius,and you volsces,mark,for well hear naught from rome in private.
do i curse thee?
say their great enemy is gone,and they stand in their ancient strength.
you shall,my lord.
hold,ho!
if thou best rated by thy estimation thou dost deserve enough,and yet enough may not extend so far as to the lady.
good my lord,enter.
once more back again!
but what,but what,come they to visit us?
o th floor;his arms thus leagud.
die two months ago,and not forgotten yet?
deliver him,titus.
come,sir,i am for you.
theres an eye wounds like a leaden sword.
o,we are undone,both we and ours for ever!
come,come,disclose the state of your affection,for your passions have to the full appeachd.
i am none,by this good light.
how hast thou lost thy breath?
poor clarence did forsake his father warwick,ay,and forswore himselfwhich jesu pardon!
what,one good in ten?
if that shepherd be not in hand-fast,let him fly.
yet,if this servile usage once offend,go and be free again as suffolks friend.
yea,but not change his spots.
a trumpet is sounded,and answered by another trumpet within.
and i.
yet had we not determined he should die until your lordship came to see his end which now the loving haste of these our friends,something against our meanings,have prevented,because,my lord,we would have had you heard the traitor speak,and timorously confess the manner and the purpose of his treasons,that you might well have signified the same unto the citizens,who haply may misconster us in him,and wail his death.
thou art the list.
not dead?
define,define,well-educated infant.
and see the ambush of our friends be strong;i fear the emperor means no good to us.
a husband and a son thou owst to me;and thou a kingdom;all of you,allegiance.
o,sir,pardon me!
i leave an arrant knave with your worship;which i beseech your worship to correct yourself,for the example of others.
dispatch,i prithee.
where is my wife?
nay,byr lady,that i think,a cannot.
brave peers of england,pillars of the state,to you duke humphrey must unload his grief,your grief,the common grief of all the land.
with that all laughed and clapped him on the shoulder,making the bold wag by their praises bolder.
but,by the grace of god,and humes advice,your graces title shall be multiplied.
no,thou standst single;thourt not on him yet.
with what?
the fairest hand i ever touched!
madam,you have done me wrong,notorious wrong.
nay,sir nicholas,let it alone.
what in the world he is that names me traitor,villain-like he lies.
i am left out;for me nothing remains.
you that are honest,by being what you are,make them best seen and known.
ah,my dear,such eyes the widows in corioles wear and mothers that lack sons.
ill not budge an inch,boy:let him come,and kindly.
the queen takes place some distance from the king.
i do not like this fooling.
my lord protector,so it please your grace,here are the articles of contracted peace between our sovereign and the french king charles,for eighteen months concluded by consent.
i dare avouch it,sir:what,fifty followers?
to the palace,an it like your worship.
so did he never the sparrow.
so man and man should be;but clay and clay differs in dignity,whose dust is both alike.
ist true?
under your good correction,i have seen when,after execution,judgement hath repented oer his doom.
i would have had thee there and here again,ere i can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.
he came too late,the ship was under sail;but there the duke was given to understand that in a gondola were seen together lorenzo and his amorous jessica.
no,not to live.
which they will make an obedient father.
sir,the maid loves you,and all shall be well.
what was purposed concerning his imprisonment was rather,if there be faith in men,meant for his trial and fair purgation to the world than malice,im sure,in me.
come,come;for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep into the purse of rich prosperity as louis himself.
as willingly do i the same resign as eer thy father henry made it mine;and even as willingly at thy feet i leave it as others would ambitiously receive it.
thanks,sir.
as roughly as my modesty would let me.
i presume that,as my hand has opened bounty to you,my heart dropped love,my power rained honour,more on you than any,so your hand and heart,your brain,and every function of your power,should,notwithstanding that your bond of duty,as twere in loves particular,be more to me,your friend,than any.
it must and shall be so.
i think it be;but we have no great cause to desire the approach of day.
but that our feasts in every mess have folly,and the feeders digest it with a custom,i should blush to see you so attird;swoon,i think,to show myself a glass.
o,and there where honourable rescue and defence cries out upon the name of salisbury!
who,i rob?
many years of happy days befall my gracious sovereign,my most loving liege!
i ha told them over and over,they lack no direction.
i fear we shall outsleep the coming morn as much as we this night have overwatchd.
apart upon our knees.
i would not ha your distemper in this kind for the wealth of windsor castle.
this is the night that either makes me or fordoes me quite.
i will proclaim my name about the field.
ay,casca,tell us what hath chancd today,that caesar looks so sad.
i have done ill,of which i do accuse myself so sorely that i will joy no more.
for wooing here until i sweat again,and swearing till my very roof was dry with oaths of love,at last,(if promise last)i got a promise of this fair one here to have her love,provided that your fortune achievd her mistress.
speak like a subject,proud,ambitious york.
and great ones i dare not give.
grace is grace,despite of all controversy;as,for example,thou thyself art a wicked villain,despite of all grace.
pardon me,princely henry,and the rest.
as much as one sound cudgel of four foot you see the poor remaindercould distribute,i made no spare,sir.
here i am.
he brings great news.
let me see:every leven wether tods;every tod yields pound and odd shilling;fifteen hundred shorn,what comes the wool to?
rather think this not cressid.
ay,be-gar;and de maid is love-a me!
but the law will not allow it,pompey;nor it shall not be allowed in vienna.
to sour your happiness i must report the queen is dead.
damnd as thou art,thou hast enchanted her,for ill refer me to all things of sense,(if she in chains of magic were not bound)whether a maid so tender,fair,and happy,so opposite to marriage,that she shunnd the wealthy curled darlings of our nation,would ever have,to incur a general mock,run from her guardage to the sooty bosom of such a thing as thouto fear,not to delight.
no,faith,young troilus;doff thy harness,youth;i am today i thvein of chivalry.
go,sir andrew.
but heaven hath a hand in these events,to whose high will we bound our calm contents.
the queen is coming.
i must change names at home,and give the distaff into my husbands hands.
or neither?
tear him,tear him!
most savage and unnatural!
the other night i fell asleep here,behind the arras,and had my pocket picked.
for a little follow,and do me service.
besides,all french and france exclaims on thee,doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.
it is to be all made of fantasy,all made of passion,and all made of wishes,all adoration,duty,and observance,all humbleness,all patience,and impatience,all purity,all trial,all observance,and so am i for phoebe.
what man is there so much unreasonable,if you had pleasd to have defended it with any terms of zeal,wanted the modesty to urge the thing held as a ceremony?
the cryspalamon.
do you wish,then,that the gods had made me poetical?
let pericles believe his daughters dead,and bear his courses to be ordered by lady fortune;while our scene must play his daughters woe and heavy well-a-day in her unholy service.
mark you that?
mourn not,except thou sorrow for my good;only give order for my funeral.
pray,speak him,friend.
can any of your neighbours tell,kate?
he thats coming must be provided for;and you shall put this nights great business into my dispatch;which shall to all our nights and days to come give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
i long to hear the story of your life,which must take the ear strangely.
well,well,i see i talk but idly,and you laugh at me.
sorrow concealed,like an oven stopped,doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.
you are a fool.
only they that come to hear a merry bawdy play,a noise of targets,or to see a fellow in a long motley coat guarded with yellow,will be deceived.
if we shall stand still in fear our motion will be mocked or carped at,we should take root here where we sit,or sit state-statues only.
sweet chucks,beat not the bones of the buried.
i am sorry,what,have you given him any hard words of late?
no notes of sally,for the heavens,sweet brother!
grim-visaged war hath smoothed his wrinkled front;and now,instead of mounting barbed steeds to fright the souls of fearful adversaries,he capers nimbly in a ladys chamber to the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
the gentles are at their game,and we will to our recreation.
marry,now i can tell.
the more she saw the blood his cheeks replenish,the more she thought he spied in her some blemish.
ay,springes to catch woodcocks.
give me your hand.
so god sa me,tis shame to stand still;it is shame,by my hand;and there is throats to be cut,and works to be done;and there ish nothing done,so chrish sa me,la!
i have seen the cannon,when it hath blown his ranks into the air and,like the devil,from his very arm puffd his own brother,and can he be angry?
pretty and apt.
not so well apparelld as i wish you were.
awake,and win the day.
and yet,methinks,i could be well content to be mine own attorney in this case.
why,thou full dish of fool,from troy.
why dost not speak?
true,so i am.
o my good lord,that comfort comes too late;tis like a pardon after execution.
for shame deny that thou bearst love to any who for thyself art so unprovident.
nay more than flint,for stone at rain relenteth:art thou a womans son and canst not feel what tis to love,how want of love tormenteth?
osric and lords.
so may he rest.
i will expect you.
i prithee,peace,good queen,and whet not on these furious peers;for blessed are the peacemakers on earth.
o no,that cannot be!
who is here?
o,you go far.
villain,be sure thou prove my love a whore;be sure of it.
who is thy lord?
you tell me true.
this said,he shakes aloft his roman blade,which,like a falcon towring in the skies,coucheth the fowl below with his wings shade,whose crooked beak threats,if he mount he dies.
searching the window for a flint,i found this paper,thus seald up,and i am sure it did not lie there when i went to bed.
and when that they are dead,let me go grind their bones to powder small,and with this hateful liquor temper it,and in that paste let their vile heads be baked.
but now the bishop turns insurrection to religion.
master,master!
shall i bid him go?
who is here so rude,that would not be a roman?
why,percy i killd myself,and saw thee dead.
how dost,fool?
that it should come to this!
stand,aufidius,and trouble not the peace.
i have a reasonable good ear in music.
i would not have you go off here.
why do fond men expose themselves to battle and not endure all threats?
i now seal it,and with that blood will make em one day groan fort.
tarry,good beatrice.
he says hell come;how shall i feast him?
the law hath not been dead,though it hath slept.
why,madam,that is to the isle of man,there to be used according to your state.
past hope,and in despair;that way past grace.
your lord sends now for money?
if this be not a lawful cause for me to leave his service,look you,sir,he bid me knock him and rap him soundly,sir:well,was it fit for a servant to use his master so;being,perhaps,for aught i see,two-and-thirty,a pip out?
too well,too well.
tis strange.
grace and remembrance be to you both!
ill have five hundred voices of that sound.
the meantime,lady,ill raise the preparation of a war shall stain your brother.
set you down this.
that is a step on which i must fall down,or else oerleap,for in my way it lies.
fie,sir,fie!
who came?
he covets less than misery itself would give,rewards his deeds with doing them,and is content to spend the time to end it.
what power is in agrippa,if i would say agrippa,be it so,to make this good?
ist not a handsome gentleman?
the king is a good king;but it must be as it may;he passes some humours and careers.
the deep vexation of his inward soul hath served a dumb arrest upon his tongue;who,mad that sorrow should his use control or keep him from heart-easing words so long,begins to talk;but through his lips do throng weak words,so thick come in his poor hearts aid that no man could distinguish what he said.
it is spoke as a christians ought to speak.
nor on the beasts themselves,the birds,and fishes;you must eat men.
go fetch my best attires.
i am too sure of it.
are you avised o that?
if that be right which warwick says is right,there is no wrong,but everything is right.
he will forsooth have all my prisoners,and when i urged the ransom once again of my wifes brother,then his cheek lookd pale,and on my face he turnd an eye of death,trembling even at the name of mortimer.
sweet lovers love the spring.
i cannot think my sister in the least would fail her obligation.
peace,fellow,peace.
troilus,i say!
how now!
palamon still?
here never shines the sun,here nothing breeds,unless the nightly owl or fatal raven.
his son was but a ward two years ago.
shall we have a play extempore?
host hue and cry,villain,go!
is not your lord honourable without marriage?
heaven secure him.
my good lord.
and so suppose am i,for in his grave,assure thyself,my love is buried.
no,not a whit.
dangerous fellow,hence!
marry,sir,to get a husband for her sister.
produce the prisoner.
go,get you from the door.
as for these silken-coated slaves,i pass not.
what an unweighed behaviour hath this flemish drunkard pickedwith the devils name!
good madam,do.
publius,follow me.
sconce,call you it?
a fustian riddle!
hail,all you state of greece!
give us the swords,we have bucklers of our own.
good my liege,peace,kent!
nay,how now!
thy valiantness was mine;thou suckdst it from me,but owe thy pride thyself.
it lies as sightly on the back of him as great alcides shows upon an ass.
nor the soles of her shoe?
do they so?
ah,barbarous villains!
draw,men,for all this privileged place.
this has no holding,to swear by him whom i protest to love that i will work against him.
for which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
the loss of such a lord includes all harms.
heavens,have i said,the bounty of this lord!
why,what a monstrous fellow art thou,thus to rail on one thats neither known of thee nor knows thee?
here,here,heres an excellent place;here we may see most bravely.
thou precious varlet,my tailor made them not.
though i am satisfied,and need no more than what i know,yet shall the oracle give rest to the minds of others,such as he whose ignorant credulity will not come up to th truth.
she will endite him to some supper.
well,jessica,go in.
how,i th name of thrift does he rake this together?
lavinia,come receive the blood.
o,tis an accident that heaven provides!
i am afraid this great lubber,the world,will prove a cockney.
no,not to lose it all as thou hast done.
i thought,at least,he would have said the king;or did he make the jest against his will?
we all expect a gentle answer,jew.
captain macmorris,i think,look you,under your correction,there is not many of your nation of my nation!
help,ho!
belike,boy,then you are in love,for last morning you could not see to wipe my shoes.
swell,bosom,with thy fraught,for tis of aspics tongues!
good things of day begin to droop and drowse,whiles nights black agents to their preys do rouse.
i will make an end of my dinner;theres pippins and cheese to come.
since brass,nor stone,nor earth,nor boundless sea,but sad mortality oersways their power,how with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,whose action is no stronger than a flower?
let this be done:put them in secret holds,both barnardine and claudio.
and hark ye,sirs;because she is a maid,spare for no faggots,let there be enow.
though age from folly could not give me freedom,it does from childishness.
but i pray you,what think you of a duchess?
a dream itself is but a shadow.
lady,a word.
im weary of this charge,the gods can witness.
all oerjoyd save these in bonds.
ha,ha,ha!
slice,i say!
there was speech in their dumbness,language in their very gesture;they looked as they had heard of a world ransomed,or one destroyed.
let the trumpet sound and read out this.
would they not speak?
o,sir john,do you remember since we lay all night in the windmill in saint georges field?
alls not offence that indiscretion finds and dotage terms so.
some god direct my judgment!
you perceive she stirs.
and indeed this day,siri may tell it you,i thinki have incensed the lords o th council,that he is for so i know he is,they know he is a most arch heretic,a pestilence that does infect the land;with which they,moved,have broken with the king,who hath so far given ear to our complaint,of his great grace and princely care foreseeing those fell mischiefs our reasons laid before him,hath commanded tomorrow morning to the council board he be convented.
o,call back yesterday,bid time return,and thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
wheres the fool now?
god send us peace!
a daughter?
noble lady,first,mine own service to your grace;the next,the kings request that i would visit you,who grieves much for your weakness,and by me sends you his princely commendations,and heartily entreats you take good comfort.
no,not till a hot january.
withdraw,my lord;ill help you to a horse.
within these three hours,tullus,alone i fought in your corioles walls,and made what work i pleased.
ill be sworn tis true;he will weep you,and twere a man born in april.
but one fiend at a time,ill fight their legions oer.
o,you are a flattering boy!
as henrys late presaging prophecy did glad my heart with hope of this young richmond,so doth my heart misgive me,in these conflicts what may befall him,to his harm and ours.
this prophecy merlin shall make;for i live before his time.
god knows thou art a collop of my flesh;and for thy sake have i shed many a tear.
the moor already changes with my poison:dangerous conceits are in their natures poisons,which at the first are scarce found to distaste,but with a little act upon the blood burn like the mines of sulphur.
sirrah,fetch drier logs.
why,tis not amiss,pompey.
you have land enough of your own;but he added to your having,gave you some ground.
i have livd long enough:my way of life is falln into the sere,the yellow leaf;and that which should accompany old age,as honour,love,obedience,troops of friends,i must not look to have;but,in their stead,curses,not loud but deep,mouth-honour,breath,which the poor heart would fain deny,and dare not.
i could be sad:this does make some obstruction in the blood,this cross-gartering.
rumour doth double,like the voice and echo,the numbers of the feared.
by this at daintry,with a puissant troop.
if she be all that is virtuous,save what thou dislikst,a poor physicians daughter,thou dislikst of virtue for the name.
if children predecease progenitors,we are their offspring,and they none of ours.
as it is a spare life,look you,it fits my humour well;but as there is no more plenty in it,it goes much against my stomach.
is all thy comfort shut in gloucesters tomb?
did heaven look on,and would not take their part?
the worser welcome.
we know each others faces;for our hearts,he knows no more of mine than i of yours,or i of his,my lord,than you of mine.
setting aside his high bloods royalty,and let him be no kinsman to my liege,i do defy him,and i spit at him,call him a slanderous coward and a villain;which to maintain,i would allow him odds and meet him,were i tied to run afoot even to the frozen ridges of the alps,or any other ground inhabitable wherever englishman durst set his foot.
hang ye!
the one doth call her his,the other his,yet neither may possess the claim they lay,the father says shes mine.
out,treacherous villain!
and by my two faiths and troths,my lord,i spoke mine.
ay,our way to be gone.
follow thy drum,with mans blood paint the ground gules,gules.
i think so too.
now tis the spring,and weeds are shallow-rooted;suffer them now,and theyll oergrow the garden and choke the herbs for want of husbandry.
it faded on the crowing of the cock.
wilt thou forsake thy fortune,bequeath thy land to him,and follow me?
would i had two coxcombs and two daughters!
how fares my noble lord?
whos there?
fery goot.
good cousin,give me audience for a while.
i ha told him ont,but i could neer get him from t.
draw thy sword,that if my speech offend a noble heart,thy arm may do thee justice:here is mine.
look,he recovers.
good captain peesel,be quiet,tis very late,i faith.
i have not closed mine eyes save when my lids scoured off their brine.
thou knowest in the state of innocency adam fell,and what should poor jack falstaff do in the days of villainy?
a very superficial,ignorant,unweighing fellow.
it will make you melancholy,monsieur jaques.
this is hard and undeserved measure,my lord.
remember,if eer thou lookdst on majesty.
more than three hours the fight continued;where valiant talbot,above human thought,enacted wonders with his sword and lance.
o,what pity is it that he had not so trimmed and dressed his land as we this garden!
i am resolved.
thou shalt be lord of it and ill serve thee.
ill take my leave,and leave you to the hearing of the cause;hoping youll find good cause to whip them all.
if the springe hold,the cocks mine.
i am content.
o give it me lest thy hard heart do steel it,and being steeld,soft sighs can never grave it.
alas,i am the mother of these griefs.
alack,when once our grace we have forgot,nothing goes right;we would,and we would not.
i am too sore enpierced with his shaft to soar with his light feathers,and so bound,i cannot bound a pitch above dull woe.
ill make all speed.
i go,and if you plead as well for them as i can say nay to thee for myself,no doubt we bring it to a happy issue.
the constable of france.
so may it be indeed.
there they always use to discharge their birding-pieces.
i will do so.
to seek my uncle in the forest of arden.
honour,health,and compassion to the senate!
sir,let me be so bold as ask you,did you yet ever see baptistas daughter?
is t meet that he should leave the helm and,like a fearful lad,with tearful eyes add water to the sea and give more strength to that which hath too much,whiles in his moan the ship splits on the rock,which industry and courage might have saved?
by my life,this is my ladys hand:these be her very cs,her us,and her ts,and thus makes she her great ps.
at friar patricks cell,where i intend holy confession.
i have letters that my son will be here tonight.
o,let me kiss this princess of pure white,this seal of bliss!
here,all enraged,such passion her assails,that patience is quite beaten from her breast.
madam,i pity much your grievances,which,since i know they virtuously are placed,i give consent to go along with you,recking as little what betideth me as much i wish all good befortune you.
a trim exploit,a manly enterprise,to conjure tears up in a poor maids eyes with your derision!
look how thy servants do attend on thee,each in his office ready at thy beck:wilt thou have music?
troth,i think your other rebato were better.
poor ropes,you are beguild,both you and i;for romeo is exild.
why should not i then prosecute my right?
thou runaway,thou coward,art thou fled?
if speaking truth in this fine age were not thought flattery,such attribution should the douglas have as not a soldier of this seasons stamp should go so general current through the world.
let me hear from you.
thats doneas near as the extremest ends of parallels,as like as vulcan and his wife;yet god achilles still cries excellent!
oft have i digged up dead men from their graves,and set them upright at their dear friends door,even when their sorrows almost was forgot,and on their skins,as on the bark of trees,have with my knife carved in roman letters,let not your sorrow die,though i am dead.
collars of ss.
full well hath clifford played the orator,inferring arguments of mighty force.
nay,thats right;but why wear you your leek today?
the forlorn soldier,that so nobly fought,he would have well becomd this place and gracd the thankings of a king.
be this sweet helens knell,and now forget her.
let not my sense unsettle,lest i should drown,or stab,or hang myself.
this guilt would seem death-worthy in thy brother.
if you had known the virtue of the ring,or half her worthiness that gave the ring,or your own honour to contain the ring,you would not then have parted with the ring.
are you so formal,sir?
this tongue had not offended so today,if cassius might have ruld.
god defend me from these two!
of no more force to dispossess me,sir,than was his will to get me,as i think.
thou shalt have a share in our purchase,as i am a true man.
it is music with her silver sound because musicians have no gold for sounding.
)to master csars sword,made luds town with rejoicing fires bright and britons strut with courage.
hath the prince john a full commission,in very ample virtue of his father,to hear and absolutely to determine of what conditions we shall stand upon?
now,banishd kent,if thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemnd,so may it come,thy master,whom thou lovst,shall find thee full of labours.
then,when you come to plutos region,i pray you,deliver him this petition;tell him it is for justice and for aid,and that it comes from old andronicus,shaken with sorrows in ungrateful rome.
live,and deal with others better.
the falcon as the tercel,for all the ducks i th river.
theres not a soldier of us all that,in the thanksgiving before meat,do relish the petition well that prays for peace.
mend the instance,shepherd.
tis a good hearing when children are toward.
believe,youll find it so.
you are not oathable,although i know youll swearterribly swear into strong shudders and to heavenly agues th immortal gods that hear you.
o then vouchsafe me but this loving thought,had my friends muse grown with this growing age,a dearer birth than this his love had brought to march in ranks of better equipage:but since he died and poets better prove,theirs for their style ill read,his for his love.
claps into light o love;that goes without a burden:do you sing it,and ill dance it.
some villains of my court are of consent and sufferance in this.
to caesar i will speak what you shall please,if youll employ me to him.
had all your quarters been as safely kept as that whereof i had the government,we had not been thus shamefully surprised.
and never will i rise up from the ground till bolingbroke have pardoned thee.
go,one of you,find out the forester;for now our observation is performd;and since we have the vaward of the day,my love shall hear the music of my hounds.
faith,theres no way to be rid ont but by the way to the pox.
and am i your son?
ay,marry,there will be woe indeed,lords.
charges she more than me?
that were the most,if he should husband you.
thats he that was othello.
say,what thing,what thing?
now the hungry lion roars,and the wolf behowls the moon;whilst the heavy ploughman snores,all with weary task fordone.
help,jupiter!
whos that?
demetrius,i will keep my word with thee.
he is welcome too.
or that there were such men whose heads stood in their breasts?
i am not mad;i know thee well enough.
th entreaties of your mistress?
what,with me too,thersites?
hes honest,on mine honour.
speed,then,to take advantage of the field.
what say you,master?
but say that one had rather combat me?
now well together,and the chance of goodness be like our warranted quarrel.
what,warwick,wilt thou leave the town and fight?
to apprehend thus draws us a profit from all things we see,and often to our comfort shall we find the sharded beetle in a safer hold than is the full-wingd eagle.
i come,master shallow,i come,master shallow.
it is impossible that ever rome should breed thy fellow.
and tell me,noble diomed,faith,tell me true,even in the soul of sound good-fellowship,who in your thoughts deserves fair helen best,myself,or menelaus?
out of our way,i say.
well,thou shalt see,thy eyes shall be thy judge,the difference of old shylock and bassanio.
not see him since?
no dance!
not sad,my lord.
thieves,thieves!
go,father,with thy son.
and what was he?
choler does kill me that thou art alive.
coriolanus must i call thee?
when it is paid according to the tenour.
your answer,sir.
of all thy suitors here i charge thee tell whom thou lovst best:see thou dissemble not.
the heaven sets spies upon us,will not have our contract celebrated.
i have your alms.
here,my lord,in readiness.
why then,good morrow to you all,my lords.
out on thee,villain!
my cook and ill provide.
thou shouldst have made him as little as a crow,or less,ere left to after-eye him.
the sum of this,brought hither to pentapolis y-ravished the regions round,and everyone with claps can sound,our heir apparent is a king!
wonder of time,quoth she,this is my spite,that thou being dead,the day should yet be light.
a man or a fish?
then the charm is firm and good.
come on;thou art granted space.
the taper burneth in your closet,sir.
yes,truly can i.
yet be content.
ah me,detested!
nature awakes;a warmth breathes out of her.
and i am witness with her that she did.
i am heinously unprovided.
o that your highness knew my heart in this:i never loved my brother in my life.
nay,ill come.
thou hast redeemd thy lost opinion,and showd thou makst some tender of my life,in this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.
i am glad he went not in himself.
now ill tell you without asking.
she is my goods,my chattels;she is my house,my household stuff,my field,my barn,my horse,my ox,my ass,my anything;and here she stands,touch her whoever dare;ill bring mine action on the proudest he that stops my way in padua.
but,for my part,she is my kinswoman;i would not,as they term it,praise her,but i would somebody had heard her talk yesterday,as i did.
why,how now,hamlet?
if i go,he has her.
you have displaced the mirth,broke the good meeting with most admird disorder.
pray you,sir,use the carp as you may,for he looks like a poor,decayed,ingenious,foolish,rascally knave.
i will not answer thee with words,but blows.
as gentle and as jocund as to jest go i to fight.
o you mighty gods!
i paint him in the character.
he may win,and what is music then?
better shame than murder.
i will not sing.
then judge,great lords,if i have done amiss,or whether that such cowards ought to wear this ornament of knighthood,yea or no?
o madam,yonder is heavy news within between two soldiers and my young lady.
now put your shields before your hearts,and fight with hearts more proof than shields.
but how many hath he killed?
i cannot,lord;i have important business,the tide whereof is now.
come,then,for with a wound i must be cured.
tush,man,abodements must not now affright us.
look to it well,and say you are well warnd.
o cromwell,cromwell,had i but served my god with half the zeal i served my king,he would not in mine age have left me naked to mine enemies.
you show too much of that for which the people stir.
now,knock when i bid you,sirrah villain!
o silius,silius,i have done enough.
ill make him find him.
ay,as the rocks cheer them that fear their wrack!
apollo plays,and twenty caged nightingales do sing:or wilt thou sleep?
but is not this braver?
sleep,thou has been a grandsire and begot a father to me;and thou hast created a mother and two brothers.
commend me to him,i will send his ransom;and,being enfranchised,bid him come to me.
i cannot tell what heaven hath given himlet some graver eye pierce into thatbut i can see his pride peep through each part of him.
the wild disguise hath almost anticked us all.
if you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
is this thy bodys end?
thou movst no less with thy complaining than thy master in bleeding.
this is the old man still.
revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
a better never did itself sustain upon a soldiers thigh:i have seen the day that with this little arm and this good sword i have made my way through more impediments than twenty times your stop.
well,fare thee well.
why should i carry lies abroad?
o dear father,it is thy business that i go about;therefore great france my mourning and important tears hath pitied.
i would my arms could match thee in contention as they contend with thee in courtesy.
my honour ill bequeath unto the knife that wounds my body so dishonoured.
quickly,dispatch.
for forth he goes and visits all his host,bids them good morrow with a modest smile,and calls them brothers,friends,and countrymen.
)what said she to you?
i am solicited,not by a few,and those of true condition,that your subjects are in great grievance.
things out of hope are compassd oft with ventring,chiefly in love,whose leave exceeds commission:affection faints not like a pale-facd coward,but then woos best when most his choice is froward.
he is drunk now:where had he wine?
so it is.
i will say thus much for him:if a prince may be beholding to a subject,i am,for his love and service,so to him.
i spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack.
nay then,let the devil wear black,for ill have a suit of sables.
that paragon,thy daughter,for whom my heart drops blood and my false spirits quail to remembergive me leave,i faint.
how now,general?
if you misdoubt me that i am not she,i know not how i shall assure you further,but i shall lose the grounds i work upon.
am i falln much away?
mark but the badges of these men,my lords,then say if they be true.
i prithee come.
i never at great feasts sought to betray a beauty,but have blushed at simpering sirs that did.
all hail,sweet ladies!
i think,sir,you can eat none of this homely meat.
antioch,farewell!
but in short space it raind down fortune showring on your head,and such a flood of greatness fell on you,what with our help,what with the absent king,what with the injuries of a wanton time,the seeming sufferances that you had borne,and the contrarious winds that held the king so long in his unlucky irish wars that all in england did repute him dead:and from this swarm of fair advantages you took occasion to be quickly wood to gripe the general sway into your hand,forgot your oath to us at doncaster;and,being fed by us,you used us so as that ungentle gull,the cuckoos bird,useth the sparrowdid oppress our nest,grew by our feeding to so great a bulk that even our love durst not come near your sight for fear of swallowing;but with nimble wing we were enforced,for safety sake to fly out of your sight,and raise this present head,whereby we stand opposed by such means as you yourself have forged against yourself,by unkind usage,dangerous countenance,and violation of all faith and troth sworn to us in your younger enterprise.
lead,lead.
why should i war without the walls of troy that find such cruel battle here within?
peruse this paper,madam.
his deaths upon him,but not dead.
how do you both?
but are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
in this place first you fought;een very here i sundered you.
but who comes here,led by a lusty goth?
demetrius loves her,and he loves not you.
who sees his true-love in her naked bed,teaching the sheets a whiter hue than white,but when his glutton eye so full hath fed,his other agents aim at like delight?
with five times so much conversation i should get ground of your fair mistress;make her go back even to the yielding,had i admittance and opportunity to friend.
i bring no overture of war,no taxation of homage;i hold the olive in my hand:my words are as full of peace as matter.
if it be you that stirs these daughters hearts against their father,fool me not so much to bear it tamely;touch me with noble anger,and let not womens weapons,water-drops,stain my mans cheeks!
come,to this gear.
my lord,i take my leave.
thanks,courteous wall:jove shield thee well for this!
away,boys;i hear the horns.
where is green?
a man can die but once.
so,i thank thee.
our argument is love,which,if the goddess of it grant,she gives victory too.
avaunt,you cullions!
hear you me,jessica,lock up my doors,and when you hear the drum and the vile squealing of the wry-neckd fife,clamber not you up to the casements then,nor thrust your head into the public street to gaze on christian fools with varnishd faces,but stop my houses ears,i mean my casements.
good lords,conduct him to his regiment.
and why not you?
and most dear actors,eat no onions nor garlick,for we are to utter sweet breath;and i do not doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy.
what a jaunt have i had!
sorrow on thee and all the pack of you that triumph thus upon my misery!
poor souls,they perishd.
nay,heaven doth know.
till then i banish thee,on pain of death,as i have done the rest of my misleaders,not to come near our person by ten mile.
some blood drawn on me would beget opinion of my more fierce endeavour:i have seen drunkards do more than this in sport.
norfolk,we must have knocks,ha,must we not?
what meanst thou,aaron?
whoever hath her wish,thou hast thy will,and will to boot,and will in overplus,more than enough am i that vex thee still,to thy sweet will making addition thus.
let me beseech your grace not to do so:his fault is much,and the good king his master will check him fort:your purposd low correction is such as basest and contemnedst wretches for pilferings and most common trespasses,are punishd with.
spit in the hole,man,and tune again.
a man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
i dare you to this match:heres my ring.
i taket,tis later,sir.
a foolish heart that i leave here behind.
but i consider by medcine life may be prolongd,yet death will seize the doctor too.
who sent you hither?
i fly not death,to fly his deadly doom:tarry i here,i but attend on death,but fly i hence,i fly away from life.
if the duke,with the other dukes,come not to composition with the king of hungary,why then all the dukes fall upon the king.
what light is light,if silvia be not seen?
que dit-il?
not with fond shekels of the tested gold,or stones,whose rates are either rich or poor as fancy values them,but with true prayers,that shall be up at heaven and enter there ere sunrise,prayers from preserved souls,from fasting maids,whose minds are dedicate to nothing temporal.
speak,shall i call her in?
no,stir not for your lives;let her pass by.
yet the scarfs and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from believing thee a vessel of too great a burden.
she will find him by starlight.
there is at hand paris your brother,and deiphobus,the grecian diomed,and our antenor deliverd to us;and for him forthwith,ere the first sacrifice,within this hour,we must give up to diomedes hand the lady cressida.
prevent,or go thou like sir actaeon he,with ringwood at thy heels.
there is my hand.
this they have promised,to show your highness a spirit raised from depth of underground,that shall make answer to such questions as by your grace shall be propounded him.
je pense que je suis le bon colier;jai gagn deux mots danglais vitement.
hast thou the flower there?
now she unweaves the web that she hath wrought,adonis lives,and death is not to blame;it was not she that calld him all to naught;now she adds honours to his hateful name.
nay,you must name his name,and half his face must be seen through the lions neck;and he himself must speak through,saying thus,or to the same defect:ladies,or,fair ladies,i would wish you,or,i would request you,or,i would entreat you,not to fear,not to tremble:my life for yours.
yet say i,he is in love.
weigh you the worth and honour of a king,so great as our dread fathers,in a scale of common ounces?
why,what a brood of traitors have we here!
mine ears against your suits are stronger than your gates against my force.
you herd ofboils and plagues plaster you oer,that you may be abhorred farther than seen,and one infect another against the wind a mile!
now the dry serpigo on the subject,and war and lechery confound all!
villain,i say,knock me here soundly.
i pray draw near.
hie to your chamber.
rub him about the temples.
trust me,i am glad ont.
thy letters may be here,though thou art hence,which,being writ to me,shall be delivered even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.
the day is broke,be wary,look about.
ay me.
ill either make thee stoop and bend thy knee,or sack this country with a mutiny.
brother,i advise you to the best;i am no honest man if there be any good meaning toward you:i have told you what i have seen and heard.
i cannot draw a cart,nor eat dried oats;if it be mans work,ill dot.
i do not,sir.
please it this matron and this gentle maid to eat with us tonight;the charge and thanking shall be for me;and,to requite you further,i will bestow some precepts of this virgin,worthy the note.
and this,i take it,is the main motive of our preparations,the source of this our watch,and the chief head of this post-haste and rummage in the land.
shes very near her hour.
welcome,brave duke!
you should be women,and yet your beards forbid me to interpret that you are so.
the weary way hath made you melancholy.
how many thousands of my poorest subjects are at this hour asleep!
berowne they call him,but a merrier man,within the limit of becoming mirth,i never spent an hours talk withal.
once more i come to know of thee,king harry,if for thy ransom thou wilt now compound,before thy most assured overthrow;for certainly thou art so near the gulf,thou needs must be englutted.
here,peter,i drink to thee,and be not afraid.
go,take her hence and marry her instantly.
give me my rapier,boy.
why dost thou smile so,and kiss thy hand so oft?
you seem to understand me,by each at once her choppy finger laying upon her skinny lips.
and now you are metamorphosed with a mistress,that,when i look on you,i can hardly think you my master.
am i subtle?
let us hear what antony can say.
the effect of my intent is to cross theirs.
flaminius,i have noted thee always wise.
o,never shall we two exercise,like twins of honour,our arms again,and feel our fiery horses like proud seas under us!
away,then,with good courage!
god and saint george for us!
whats the matter?
that blood which owd the breadth of all this isle three foot of it doth hold.
on,on,you noblest english,whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof!
madam,myself have limed a bush for her and placed a quire of such enticing birds that she will light to listen to the lays and never mount to trouble you again.
what sayst thou,ha?
there,drink that for me.
o,tis a burden,cromwell,tis a burden too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven.
out,vile jelly!
bid them wash their faces and keep their teeth clean.
in her days every man shall eat in safety under his own vine what he plants,and sing the merry songs of peace to all his neighbours.
with that,methoughts,a legion of foul fiends environed me,and howled in mine ears such hideous cries that with the very noise i trembling waked,and for a season after could not believe but that i was in hell,such terrible impression made my dream.
come hither,nurse.
and for my sake,when i might charm thee so,for she that was thy lucrece,now attend me:be suddenly revenged on my foe,thine,mine,his own.
it shall be to the duchess of alenon,the french kings sister;he shall marry her.
he like a thievish dog creeps sadly thence;she like a wearied lamb lies panting there;he scowls,and hates himself for his offence;she,desperate,with her nails her flesh doth tear.
lift up thy looks.
and here in sight of heaven to rome i swear,if saturnine advance the queen of goths,she will a handmaid be to his desires,a loving nurse,a mother to his youth.
you might have been enough the man you are with striving less to be so.
young lucius ay,when my father was in rome she did.
ah,thus king henry throws away his crutch before his legs be firm to bear his body.
thou wert dignified enough,even to the point of envy,if twere made comparative for your virtues to be styld the under-hangman of his kingdom,and hated for being preferrd so well.
more counsel with more money,bounteous timon.
the lion,moved with pity,did endure to have his princely paws pared all away.
no more but een a woman,and commanded by such poor passion as the maid that milks and does the meanest chares.
o find him,give this ring to my true knight,and bid him come to take his last farewell.
i had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge.
meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
nay,he will do it.
therefore use thy discretion.
let the plough play today;ill tickle t out of the jades tails tomorrow.
and is it not then well served in to a sweet goose?
sir,he is with caesar.
by her he had two children at one birth.
ill take it upon my death,i gave him this wound in the thigh.
alas,poor troilus!
receive you her,you him;be plighted with a love that grows as you decay.
all then is thine.
lets away,advantage feeds him fat while men delay.
what means this passion at his name?
here in my scabbard,meditating that shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.
see now how wit may be made a jack-a-lent when tis upon ill employment!
but these offers,which serve not for his vantage,he shakes off,and so should you.
well,let them rest.
as i remember,this should be the house.
he is coming.
come,lets away.
if you be more,youre none.
nay,keep your place.
i another.
good lady!
then you are weakly made.
let us have the tongs and the bones.
not so,not so.
to thine own peace.
away toward bury,to the dauphin there!
nay,sure,i think she holds them prisoners still.
thy heat of lust,fond paris,did incur this load of wrath that burning troy doth bear;thy eye kindled the fire that burneth here,and here in troy,for trespass of thine eye,the sire,the son,the dame,and daughter die.
and i.
come hither.
one side will mock another;the other too!
lo,all these trophies of affections hot,of pensivd and subdued desires the tender,nature hath chargd me that i hoard them not,but yield them up where i myself must render,that is,to you,my origin and ender:for these of force must your oblations be,since i their altar,you empatron me.
o agamemnon,let it not be so!
ist good?
my lord,i have news to tell you.
you see this fellow that is gone before,he is a soldier fit to stand by csar and give direction:and do but see his vice,tis to his virtue a just equinox,the one as long as th other.
and i,here,at the bulwark of the bridge.
a noble memory!
look when i serve him so,he takes it ill.
and yet i fear you,for you are fatal then when your eyes roll so:why i should fear i know not,since guiltiness i know not,but yet i feel i fear.
beware of them,diana;their promises,enticements,oaths,tokens,and all these engines of lust,are not the things they go under;many a maid hath been seduced by them;and the misery is,example,that so terrible shows in the wreck of maidenhood,cannot for all that dissuade succession,but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten them.
theres not a hollow cave or lurking-place,no vast obscurity or misty vale,where bloody murder or detested rape can couch for fear but i will find them out,and in their ears tell them my dreadful name,revenge,which makes the foul offender quake.
well,what would you say?
so ill fight against the part i come with;so ill die for thee,o imogen,even for whom my life is every breath a death.
now play him me,patroclus,arming to answer in a night alarm.
fie,fie,how frantically i square my talk,as if we should forget we had no hands,if marcus did not name the word of hands!
follow his chariot,like the greatest spot of all thy sex;most monster-like be shown for poorst diminutives,for dolts,and let patient octavia plough thy visage up with her prepared nails.
why,man?
no,by the holy rood,thou knowst it well thou camst on earth to make the earth my hell.
lysanders love,that would not let him bide,fair helena,who more engilds the night than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light.
you dissembling knight!
thy name affrights me,in whose sound is death.
my gold,quoth he.
five men to twenty!
poor soul the centre of my sinful earth,my sinful earth these rebel powers array,why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
i have suffered more for their sakes,more than the villainous inconstancy of mans disposition is able to bear.
i come to answer thy best pleasure;bet to fly,to swim,to dive into the fire,to ride on the curld clouds,to thy strong bidding task ariel and all his quality.
the scars upon your honour,therefore,he does pity as constrained blemishes,not as deserved.
may this be so?
i wear out my suit.
it beggars any man that keeps it.
the duke be here tonight?
ayez piti de moi!
o admirable man!
ill not over the threshold till my lord return from the wars.
give me thy hand,terrestrial;so.
not for the world,fair madam,by my will.
juliet,the county stays.
you should in all sense be much bound to him,for,as i hear,he was much bound for you.
he was first smokd by the old lord lafew;when his disguise and he is parted,tell me what a sprat you shall find him;which you shall see this very night.
yet they are not joined.
then if thou hast a heart of wreak in thee,that wilt revenge thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims of shame seen through thy country,speed thee straight and make my misery serve thy turn.
speak no more.
by this your king hath heard of great augustus.
o most kind maid,it was the swift celerity of his death,which i did think with slower foot came on,that brained my purpose.
give me the boy.
that you will take your instant leave o the king,and make this haste as your own good proceeding,strengthend with what apology you think may make it probable need.
i told him,and i think i told him true,that your grace had got the good will of this young lady;and i offered him my company to a willow tree,either to make him a garland,as being forsaken,or to bind him up a rod,as being worthy to be whipped.
he cannot like her long.
o,thats a brave man!
why,my negation hath no taste of madness.
how hast thou purchased this experience?
no marrying mong his subjects?
faith,i must;shell rail in the street else.
patience,good katherine,and baptista too.
thou wot,wot thou?
a plague upon you both!
kind is my love to-day,to-morrow kind,still constant in a wondrous excellence,therefore my verse to constancy confined,one thing expressing,leaves out difference.
i may do that i shall be sorry for.
o husband,god doth know you dind at home,where would you had remaind until this time,free from these slanders and this open shame.
wheres your compass?
re-enter leonine.
at supper.
pray heaven the king may never find a heart with less allegiance in it!
o iago!
fair lady cressid,so please you,save the thanks this prince expects.
i did that i did not this seven year before:i blushed to hear his monstrous devices.
i see you all are bent to set against me for your merriment.
what a strange case was that!
then take him up,and manage well the jest.
i cannot think,my lord,your son is dead.
ist lawful,pray you,to see her women?
the air hath got into my deadly wounds,and much effuse of blood doth make me faint.
but now i livd,and life was deaths annoy;but now i died,and death was lively joy.
you neer killd imogen till now.
if ere thou wast thyself,and these woes thine,thou and these woes were all for rosaline,and art thou changd?
now by yond marble heaven,in the due reverence of a sacred vowi here engage my words.
o good sir toby,hold!
si fortuna me tormenta,spero me contenta.
we see it,we see it.
lords,give us leave;ill try this widows wit.
why,my skin hangs about me like an old ladys loose gown.
ay,when?
give me my principal,and let me go.
swear your love.
do not,porpentine,do not;my fingers itch.
here stands the man;good.
where shall i meet you?
worthy menenius agrippa,one that hath always loved the people.
prithee,read i thy right wits.
to thee,to thee,my heaved-up hands appeal,not to seducing lust,thy rash relier.
how now,friend eros?
how can this be?
i tell you,he does sit in gold,his eye red as twould burn rome;and his injury the jailer to his pity.
large gifts have i bestowed on learned clerks,because my book preferred me to the king.
he rages;none dare come about him.
when he was here he did incline to sadness,and oft-times not knowing why.
look,here is a basket.
meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall.
your loves,as mine to you:farewell.
then,true pisanio,who longst like me to see thy lord,who longst(o,let me bate!
work thou the way,and that shall execute.
therefore,good mother,to whom am i beholding for these limbs?
let my presumption not provoke thy wrath,for i am sorry that with reverence i did not entertain thee as thou art.
then woo thyself,be of thyself rejected,steal thine own freedom,and complain on theft.
here cease more questions;thou art inclind to sleep;tis a good dulness,and give it way.
i have not the skill.
i do believe statist though i am none,nor like to be,that this will prove a war;and you shall hear the legions now in gallia sooner landed in our not-fearing britain than have tidings of any penny tribute paid.
this needs must be a practice.
wherefore base?
look tot.
hes right noble.
slave,i have set my life upon a cast,and i will stand the hazard of the die.
you have said well.
nay,let them go,a couple of quiet ones.
froissart,a countryman of ours,records,england all olivers and rowlands bred during the time edward the third did reign.
know you how much the people may be movd by that which he will utter?
strike alarum,drums!
nay,come again!
no,madam.
and yet you will stand to it,you will not pocket up wrong.
by all thats holy,he had better starve than but once think this place becomes thee not.
the smallest worm will turn,being trodden on,and doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.
they have here propertied me;keep me in darkness,send ministers to me,asses,and do all they can to face me out of my wits.
the preyful princess pierced and pricked a pretty pleasing pricket;some say a sore;but not a sore till now made sore with shooting.
thou hast hit it;for theres no better sign of a brave mind than a hard hand.
i will do so.
i am not melancholy.
i will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight,so drunken,and so indiscreet an officer.
tis strange,my theseus,that these lovers speak of.
go together,you precious winners all;your exultation partake to everyone.
ay,to devour him,as the hungry plebeians would the noble martius.
why then he is alive.
as nail in door.
what adam dost thou mean?
behind is left to govern,if you bear in mind,old escanes,whom helicanus late advanced in time to great and high estate.
alas,my lord,i cannot fight;for gods sake,pity my case!
it must bese offendendo,it cannot be else.
if you will jest with me,know my aspect,and fashion your demeanour to my looks,or i will beat this method in your sconce.
when i wakd,i found this label on my bosom;whose containing is so from sense in hardness that i can make no collection of it.
the readiest way to make the wench amends is to become her husband and her father;the which will i,not all so much for love as for another secret close intent,by marrying her which i must reach unto.
she takes strong note of me,hath made me near her,and this beauteous morn,the primst of all the year,presents me with a brace of horses;two such steeds might well be by a pair of kings backed,in a field that their crowns titles tried.
a cold world,curtis,in every office but thine;and therefore fire.
thou dost forget thyself.
go you the next way with your findings.
macduff is missing,and your noble son.
i hope,sir,if you thrive,youll remember from whence you had them.
good my friends,if you have heard your general talk of rome and of his friends there,it is lots to blanks my name hath touched your ears.
i say at once let your brief plagues be mercy,and linger not our sure destructions on.
if eer i lovd her,all that love is gone.
ill bear him no more sticks,but follow thee,thou wondrous man.
i see your brows are full of discontent,your hearts of sorrow,and your eyes of tears.
no more of stay.
call thither all the officers o th town,where they shall know our mind.
i know you do not love me;for your sisters have,as i do remember,done me wrong.
calchas,i think.
virtue is choked with foul ambition,and charity chased hence by rancours hand;foul subornation is predominant,and equity exiled your highness land.
a woeful cressid mongst the merry greeks!
haply this life is best,if quiet life be best;sweeter to you that have a sharper known;well corresponding with your stiff age.
no,no.
these griefs,these woes,these sorrows make me old.
a thousand favours from a maund she drew,of amber,crystal,and of beaded jet,which one by one she in a river threw,upon whose weeping margent she was set,like usury applying wet to wet,or monarchs hands,that lets not bounty fall where want cries some,but where excess begs all.
what became of his bark and his followers?
now,gods,stand up for bastards!
no,not a denier.
thats no matter.
yet cease your ire,you angry stars of heaven!
before agamemnons tent.
guard her till caesar come.
it is no matter if the tied were lost,for it is the unkindest tied that ever any man tied.
you have not heard of the proclamation,have you?
here,take this too;it is a basilisk unto mine eye,kills me to look ont.
unhand me,gentlemen.
ill strive with troubled thoughts to take a nap,lest leaden slumber peise me down tomorrow when i should mount with wings of victory.
so do i my stone.
not yet?
i grant your wish,for,to say true,your cousin has ten times more offended,for i gave him more mercy than you found,sir,your offences being no more than his.
demetrius,thou dost overween in all,and so in this,to bear me down with braves.
your meat doth burn quoth i.
o villains,vipers,damned without redemption!
shall i call you father?
nay,stand thou back;i will not budge a foot.
the gods rebuke me,but it is tidings to wash the eyes of kings.
i can,petruchio,help thee to a wife with wealth enough,and young and beauteous;brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman:her only fault,and that is faults enough,is,that she is intolerable curst,and shrewd and froward,so beyond all measure,that,were my state far worser than it is,i would not wed her for a mine of gold.
now,by my life,this day grows wondrous hot;some airy devil hovers in the sky and pours down mischief.
not sound?
nor stony tower,nor walls of beaten brass,nor airless dungeon,nor strong links of iron,can be retentive to the strength of spirit;but life,being weary of these worldly bars,never lacks power to dismiss itself.
by the mass,lad,thou sayest true.
these lords are visited.
come,sisters,cheer we up his sprites,and show the best of our delights.
nay,then,he is a conjurer.
why then,lament therefor.
i will dry-beat you with an iron wit,and put up my iron dagger.
is it bitter?
admird miranda!
the clerk of chartham.
you have seen and proved a fairer former fortune than that which is to approach.
because hes guilty,and he is not guilty.
to me the difference forges dread.
your ships are stayd at venice;and the duke,for private quarrel twixt your duke and him,hath publishd and proclaimd it openly.
what shall be our sport,then?
than my lord hastings no man might be bolder.
les langues des hommes sont pleines de tromperies.
come,proceed.
descend,for you must be my torch-bearer.
there was no thought of pleasing you when she was christened.
how now,sir!
it is a rupture that you may easily heal,and the cure of it not only saves your brother,but keeps you from dishonour in doing it.
een so,my lord.
what woman is this?
none but the fool,who labours to out-jest his heart-struck injuries.
bright orient pearl,alack,too timely shaded!
he is a very proper man.
go fetch it,sister.
tell me,who knows.
by this hand,it will not kill a fly.
ill have no worse a name than joves own page,and therefore look you call me ganymede.
drums and trumpets.
o dorset,speak not to me;get thee gone.
you have it from his own deliverance.
now,by my halidom,what manner of man are you?
he swears never to wash his face,nor cut his hairs:he puts on sackcloth,and to sea he bears a tempest,which his mortal vessel tears,and yet he rides it out.
ay,so,god b wi ye.
fare you well.
your eyes do menace me;why look you pale?
when he is returned,against aumerle we will enforce his trial.
fled to england!
and trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys.
raise me a devil now,and let him playqui passao th bells and bones.
love my wife?
since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,ill knock elsewhere,to see if theyll disdain me.
the better,given me by so holy a man.
they say he cried out of sack.
o heavenly god!
nor thou altogether a wise man.
but if you go so far afoot,i shall be weary,love.
yea,art thou there?
but not away tomorrow!
what if both lewis and warwick be appeased by such invention as i can devise?
go,hie thee presently,post to the road;and if the wind blow any way from shore,i will not harbour in this town tonight.
who is it?
i have received much honour by your presence,and ye shall find me thankful.
heaven and earth!
stark,as you see;thus smiling,as some fly had tickled slumber,not as deaths dart,being laughd at;his right cheek reposing on a cushion.
she then was honest.
in himself he is.
for not being at court?
judas i am.
come,come away.
i repent.
ill say never a word.
i pray you,one of you question yond man if he for gold will give us any food.
what,is the old king dead?
o the gods!
with god preserve the good duke humphrey!
i am appointed him to murder you.
take but my shame,and i resign my gage.
camillo,as you are certainly a gentleman,thereto clerk-like,experiencd,which no less adorns our gentry than our parents noble names,in whose success we are gentle,i beseech you,if you know aught which does behove my knowledge thereof to be informd,imprisont not in ignorant concealment.
sir,hes a good dog,and a fair dog,can there be more said?
was not count john here at supper?
it is the best horse of europe.
that was a fair boy,certain,but a fool,to love himself.
is it thy will,thy image should keep open my heavy eyelids to the weary night?
is his head worth a hat,or his chin worth a beard?
no devil will fright thee then so much as she.
come hither,william.
this is most likely!
the service that you three have done is more unlike than this thou tellst.
you would be another penelope.
how many tales to please me hath she coined,dreading my love,the loss thereof still fearing!
nay,it is possible enough to judgement:i do not so secure me in the error,but the main article i do approve in fearful sense.
he would never bring them to light.
now farewell,flattery;die,andronicus;thou dost not slumber.
heavens lend a thousand differing ways to one sure end.
i think there are,sir;i heard them talked of.
so it is,besieged with sable-coloured melancholy,i did commend the black-oppressing humour to the most wholesome physic of thy health-giving air;and,as i am a gentleman,betook myself to walk.
well,all is one.
good my lords,i am not prone to weeping,as our sex commonly are;the want of which vain dew perchance shall dry your pities.
shall we fall foul for toys?
if he mislike my speech and what is done,tell him he has hipparchus,my enfranched bondman,whom he may at pleasure whip,or hang,or torture,as he shall like,to quit me.
at land indeed thou dost oercount me of my fathers house;but since the cuckoo builds not for himself,remain int as thou mayst.
pisa,renowned for grave citizens,gave me my being and my father first,a merchant of great traffic through the world,vincentio,come of the bentivolii.
come on,come on,come on.
if i have too austerely punishd you,your compensation makes amends:for i have given you here a third of mine own life,or that for which i live;who once again i tender to thy hand:all thy vexations were but my trials of thy love,and thou hast strangely stood the test:here,afore heaven,i ratify this my rich gift.
i am there before my legs.
well,sir,what did this gentleman to her?
mouldy and bullcalf:for you,mouldy,stay at home till you are past service;and for your part,bullcalf,grow till you come unto it.
not so.
is it true,think you?
what say you?
you urged me as a judge,but i had rather you would have bid me argue like a father.
whats he that was not born of woman?
by this hand,they are scoundrels and substractors that say so of him.
or else it stood upon the choice of friends o hell!
trust me,i could do much.
marry,sir,you must send the ass upon the horse,for he is very slow-gaited.
what was that henton?
no eyes in your head,nor no money in your purse?
a plague of all cowards,still say i.
trouble him not;to bed,to bed!
whiles i stood rapt in the wonder of it,came missives from the king,who all-hailed me,thane of cawdor;by which title,before,these weird sisters saluted me,and referred me to the coming on of time,with hail,king that shalt be!
only,good master,while we do admire this virtue and this moral discipline,lets be no stoics nor no stocks,i pray;or so devote to aristotles checks as ovid be an outcast quite abjurd.
how like eves apple doth thy beauty grow,if thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.
madam,as thereto sworn by your command,which my love makes religion to obey,i tell you this:caesar through syria intends his journey,and within three days you with your children will he send before.
i would bring her fruit fit for the gods to feed on;youth and pleasure still as she tasted should be doubled on her;and,if she be not heavenly,i would make her so near the gods in nature,they should fear her.
happy indeed,as we have spent the day.
plague of your policy!
sweet,except not any,except thou wilt except against my love.
o,come hither,thou that begetst him that did thee beget;thou that wast born at sea,buried at tarsus,and found at sea again!
i pray you is my master yet returnd?
no,indeed,they are not.
he will be the physician that should be the patient.
look,here i have you,thus i let you go,and give you to the gods.
no,by my troth,i did not mean such love.
thats a fault that water will mend.
this man shall set me packing.
thats soon performed,because i am a subject.
therefore should every soldier in the wars do as every sick man in his bed,wash every mote out of his conscience;and dying so,death is to him advantage;or not dying,the time was blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained;and in him that escapes,it were not sin to think that,making god so free an offer,he let him outlive that day to see his greatness and to teach others how they should prepare.
i see no reason why a king of years should be to be protected like a child.
he doth oftener ask forgiveness.
jamy,officer in king henrys army.
farewell,coz.
if i lose mine honour,i lose myself;better i were not yours than yours so branchless.
tis the times plague when madmen lead the blind.
this islands mine,by sycorax my mother,which thou takst from me.
o you flatterers!
stand fair,i pray thee;let me look on thee.
hang him,let him tell the king,we are prepared.
if you love me,hold not off.
the king and all the peers are here at hand.
saw you my daughter?
this is it that makes your servants droop.
it is a matter of small consequence,which for some reasons i would not have seen.
then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
i care not and she were a blackamoor;tis all one to me.
pleaseth your majesty to give me leave,ill muster up my friends,and meet your grace where and what time your majesty shall please.
am i a queen in title and in style,and must be made a subject to a duke?
why,then,tomorrow i cannot serve your turn for rosalind?
faith,my lord,i hear of none but the new proclamation thats clapped upon the court gate.
you had indeed;a bright bay,i remember.
have patience,gentle friends,i must not read it.
heaven keep your honour!
no,let me speak,and let me rail so high that the false huswife fortune break her wheel,provoked by my offence.
o,here it is.
in the meantime,good signior benedick,repair to leonatos:commend me to him and tell him i will not fail him at supper;for indeed he hath made great preparation.
five thousand drops pays that.
the most sovereign prescription in galen is but empiricutic and,to this preservative,of no better report than a horse drench.
pronounce this sentence then,women may fall,when theres no strength in men.
why,doth not every earthly thing cry shame upon her?
why,there were but four even now.
we will be revenged.
so do i wish the crown,being so far off,and so i chide the means that keeps me from it;and so i say ill cut the causes off,flattering me with impossibilities.
i love the sport well,but i shall as soon quarrel at it as any man in england.
i dare do all that may become a man;who dares do more is none.
but,sirrah,how did thy master part with madam julia?
what,all so soon asleep!
full of wise care is this your counsel,madam.
thats i,ant like your grace.
he is knight,dubbed with unhatched rapier,and on carpet consideration,but he is a devil in private brawl.
keep it,fellow;and wear it for an honour in thy cap till i do challenge it.
solemn music.
when he had done,some followers of mine own,at lower end of the hall,hurled up their caps,and some ten voices cried,god save king richard!
good captain blunt,bear my goodnight to him,and by the second hour in the morning desire the earl to see me in my tent.
father,father!
is that the chain you promisd me today?
and will deny him.
fools had neer less grace in a year;for wise men are grown foppish,and know not how their wits to wear,their manners are so apish.
how now,horatio!
i do remember me,henry the sixth did prophesy that richmond should be king,when richmond was a little peevish boy.
lord regent,and redoubted burgundy,by whose approach the regions of artois,walloon and picardy are friends to us,this happy night the frenchmen are secure,having all day caroused and banqueted.
no epilogue,i pray you;for your play needs no excuse.
the fourth turned on the toe,and down he fell.
i thank him.
here lies the east:doth not the day break here?
no,on the barren mountains let him starve;for i shall never hold that man my friend whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost to ransom home revolted mortimer.
the gaudy,blabbing,and remorseful day is crept into the bosom of the sea;and now loud-howling wolves arouse the jades that drag the tragic melancholy night,who,with their drowsy,slow,and flagging wings clip dead mens graves and from their misty jaws breathe foul contagious darkness in the air.
for gods sake,lords,convey my tristful queen,for tears do stop the floodgates of her eyes.
good lover,let me go.
and how stand you affected to his wish?
a very honest-hearted fellow,and as poor as the king.
i hope he is.
go,get thee gone,thou false deluding slave,that feedst me with the very name of meat.
i could laugh now.
from this time such i account thy love.
i see the business.
i came unto your court for honours cause,and not to be a rebel to her state;and he that otherwise accounts of me,this sword shall prove hes honours enemy.
tybalts death was woe enough,if it had ended there.
then tell me,patroclus,what art thou?
sweet lovers love the spring.
soldiers,defer the spoil of the city until night;for with these borne before us instead of maces will we ride through the streets,and at every corner have them kiss.
macmorris,officer in king henrys army.
i pray thee,let me look on that again.
thou stormest venomously;wilt thou spit all thyself?
look you yonder,do you see?
well surety him.
yet have i fierce affections,and think what venus did with mars.
and twere dark,youd close sooner.
most true,if ever truth were pregnant by circumstance.
clubs,clubs!
you to your land,and love,and great allies.
good morrow,gentle mistress;where away?
and,as i am an honest puck,if we have unearnd luck now to scape the serpents tongue,we will make amends ere long;else the puck a liar call.
some of your french crowns have no hair at all,and then you will play bare-faced.
stay yet,lord salisbury.
run,boy,run,run,seek him out.
alexas did revolt and went to jewry on affairs of antony;there did dissuade great herod to incline himself to caesar and leave his master antony.
i spoke it,tender juvenal,as a congruent epitheton appertaining to thy young days,which we may nominate tender.
but,conscience,conscience!
we must disguise ourselves.
here she comes.
thou wilt revolt and fly to him,i fear.
ill have more,or else unsayt.
o most profane coxcomb!
now lets have a catch.
when i have fought with pembroke and his fellows,ill follow you and tell what answer lewis and the lady bona send to him.
take him unto torment!
yare a baggage;the slys are no rogues;look in the chronicles:we came in with richard conqueror.
no mind thats honest but in it shares some woe,though the main part pertains to you alone.
that fellow handles his bow like a crow-keeper:draw me a clothiers yard.
i likewise hear that valentine is dead.
o gentle proteus,loves a mighty lord,and hath so humbled me as i confess there is no woe to his correction,nor to his service no such joy on earth.
why,tis well known that,whiles i was protector,pity was all the fault that was in me;for i should melt at an offenders tears,and lowly words were ransom for their fault.
croppd are the flower-de-luces in your arms;of englands coat one half is cut away.
why,thats my bawcock.
i would thou grewst unto the shores o th haven,and questionedst every sail;if he should write,and i not have it,twere a paper lost,as offerd mercy is.
the noble brutus hath told you caesar was ambitious.
sweet,above thought i love thee.
nay,lay thee down and roar;for thou hast killd the sweetest innocent that eer did lift up eye.
be patient,they are friends,ratcliffe and lovell.
if i should take a displeasure against you,look you,thou wert but a lost monster.
merely,thou art deaths fool;for him thou labourst by thy flight to shun,and yet runnst toward him still.
truly,a peck of provender;i could munch your good dry oats.
sleep hath seizd me wholly.
i tell thee,constable,my mistress wears his own hair.
but,lords,we hear this fearful tempest sing,yet seek no shelter to avoid the storm;we see the wind sit sore upon our sails,and yet we strike not,but securely perish.
i thank thee,gentle percy;and be sure i count myself in nothing else so happy as in a soul remembring my good friends;and as my fortune ripens with thy love,it shall be still thy true loves recompense.
what have we here?
if youll go fetch him,well say our song the whilst.
wast you that did so oft contrive to kill him?
i do fear the people choose caesar for their king.
i shall never see my gold again.
your native town you entered like a post and had no welcomes home,but he returns splitting the air with noise.
a thousand welcomes!
how creeps acquaintance?
farewell,my lord.
thou purger of the earth,draw thy feared sword that does good turns to th world;give us the bones of our dead kings,that we may chapel them;and of thy boundless goodness take some note that for our crowned heads we have no roof save this,which is the lions and the bears,and vault to everything.
hold,there is forty ducats.
my lord,i do beseech you,pardon me;twas not my purpose thus to beg a kiss.
seese is not good to give putter.
my lord,sir john umfrevile turnd me back with joyful tidings,and,being better horsed,out-rode me.
all hail,great master!
then gather strength and march unto him straight;let him perceive how ill we brook his treason,and what offence it is to flout his friends.
conscience and grace,to the profoundest pit!
doest not go well?
i pray you,let me see it.
handkerchief?
peto,how now,what news?
he says he loves my daughter.
our generals wife is now the general;i may say so in this respect,for that he hath devoted and given up himself to the contemplation,mark,and denotement of her parts and graces.
i have been merry twice and once ere now.
brother,the king hath made your nephew mad.
signior baptista,my business asketh haste,and every day i cannot come to woo.
be york the next that must be bankrupt so!
there is your ring,and,look you,heres your letter.
nay,then she must needs come.
now york and lancaster are reconciled.
not a penny.
for me,the ransom of my bold attempt shall be this cold corpse on the earths cold face;but if i thrive,the gain of my attempt the least of you shall share his part thereof.
by th way we met my wife,her sister,and a rabble more of vile confederates.
and if thou please,thou mayst befriend me so much as to think i come one way of the plantagenets.
if thou hatst curses,stay not.
this news,i think,hath turned your weapons edge;tis like,my lord,you will not keep your hour.
he wears a well-steeled axe,the staff of gold;his age some five-and-twenty.
there roard the sea,and trumpet-clangor sounds.
speak the word along.
his promises fly so beyond his state that what he speaks is all in debt;he owes for every word.
gentle cousin,if you be seen,you perish instantly for breaking prison and i,if you reveal me,for my contempt.
were never orphans had so dear a loss.
my husband?
noblest of men,woot die?
his very opinion in the letter!
come your ways,sir,come.
what,i,my lord?
i do constantly believe you.
for humphrey being dead,as he shall be,and henry put apart,the next for me.
you rogue,heres lime in this sack too:there is nothing but roguery to be found in villainous man,yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime in it.
and,uncle,so will i,an if i live.
i shall fall.
tybalt,here slain,whom romeos hand did slay;romeo,that spoke him fair,bid him bethink how nice the quarrel was,and urgd withal your high displeasure.
no,i say nay to that.
i saw mark antony offer him a crown;yet twas not a crown neither,twas one of these coronets;and,as i told you,he put it by once:but,for all that,to my thinking,he would fain have had it.
whats thy pleasure?
base slave,thy words are blunt,and so art thou.
one would think his mothers milk were scarce out of him.
what means this scorn,thou most untoward knave?
you saw the ceremony?
say then to csar,our ancestor was that mulmutius which ordaind our laws,whose use the sword of csar hath too much mangled;whose repair and franchise shall,by the power we hold,be our good deed,though rome be therefore angry.
and were these inward wars once out of hand,we would,dear lords,unto the holy land.
o step between her and her fighting soul.
so i leave you,sir,to th worst of discontent.
so would i,till you had measurd how long a fool you were upon the ground.
my youth can better spare my blood than you;and therefore mine shall save my brothers lives.
some of her blood still pure and red remained,and some looked black,and that false tarquin stained.
dost thou hear?
give me some wine,and let me speak a little.
i will not ruinate my fathers house,who gave his blood to lime the stones together,and set up lancaster.
may he continue long in his highness favour,and do justice for truths sake and his conscience,that his bones,when he has run his course and sleeps in blessings,may have a tomb of orphans tears wept on him.
you confess,then,you picked my pocket?
at closes in the consequence.
i were best not call;i dare not call.
within these three hours twill be time enough to go home.
began to give me ground;but i followed me close,came in foot and hand,and with a thought seven of the eleven i paid.
here,after excursions,enter a herald of france with trumpets,to the gates.
and what have i to give you back whose worth may counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
it is no boast,being asked,to say we are.
they will,they will,god knows,and leap for joy,though they are lame with blows.
when thou impressest,what are precepts worth of stale example?
no,not so much as take this for thy pains.
ill swear for em.
what men may do!
o thou fond many,with what loud applause didst thou beat heaven with blessing bolingbroke,before he was what thou wouldst have him be!
marry,so i mean,sweet katherine,in thy bed;and therefore,setting all this chat aside,thus in plain terms:your father hath consented that you shall be my wife your dowry greed on;and will you,nill you,i will marry you.
send your trunk to me;it shall safe be kept and truly yielded you.
go,get thee hence.
what,ostler!
have you not set lysander,as in scorn,to follow me,and praise my eyes and face?
but all in vain,good queen,it will not be,she hath assayd as much as may be provd;her pleading hath deservd a greater fee;shes love,she loves,and yet she is not lovd.
this to your majesty;this to the queen.
i pray you,fall to;if you can mock a leek,you can eat a leek.
hilloa,loa!
when i spur my horse,i chide him not;content and anger in me have but one face.
ill to the queen:please you come something nearer.
villain,i say,knock me at this gate;and rap me well,or ill knock your knaves pate.
look,here is the fellow of it.
if you would know your wronger,look on me.
what do i fear?
i am glad of it,for now i shall have reason to show the love and duty that i bear you with franker spirit:therefore,as i am bound,receive it from me.
his funerals shall not be in our camp,lest it discomfort us.
but i shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall better determine.
and only in that safety died her brothers.
poor lady,shell run mad when she shall lack it.
to th pope?
company is coming here.
camillo,sir;i spake with him;who now has these poor men in question.
think what you will,we seize into our hands his plate,his goods,his money,and his lands.
strumpet,i come!
he longs to eat the english.
what needed then that terrible dispatch of it into your pocket?
even he,madam.
for whilst i think i am thy married wife and thou a prince,protector of this land,methinks i should not thus be led along,mailed up in shame,with papers on my back,and followed with a rabble that rejoice to see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans.
how say you by the french lord,monsieur le bon?
after him i love more than i love these eyes,more than my life,more,by all mores,than eer i shall love wife.
this is most brave,that i,the son of a dear father murderd,prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,must,like a whore,unpack my heart with words and fall a-cursing like a very drab,a scullion!
the better act of purposes mistook is to mistake again;though indirect,yet indirection thereby grows direct,and falsehood falsehood cures,as fire cools fire within the scorched veins of one new-burnd.
spake you of caesar?
at a few drops of womens rheum,which are as cheap as lies,he sold the blood and labour of our great action.
the proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head on his shoulders unless he pay me tribute;there shall not a maid be married but she shall pay to me her maidenhead ere they have it.
this doom,my lord,if i may judge:let somerset be regent oer the french,because in york this breeds suspicion;and let these have a day appointed them for single combat in convenient place,for he hath witness of his servants malice.
no,to white friars;there attend my coming.
now,youthful troilus,do not these high strains of divination in our sister work some touches of remorse?
it does,but time willand so i do conceive.
good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother.
let them hang!
mine eyes cannot hold out water,methinks.
you,roderigo!
she lives,master shallow.
no,faith;lords and great men will not let me;if i had a monopoly out,they would have part ont and ladies too,they will not let me have all the fool to myself;theyll be snatching.
well,sir,i thank you.
sing,siren,for thyself,and i will dote;spread oer the silver waves thy golden hairs,and as a bed ill take thee,and there lie,and,in that glorious supposition think he gains by death that hath such means to die.
sweet youth,i pray you chide a year together!
why have you not proclaimed northumberland and all the rest revolted faction traitors?
now,sir,what have you dreamd of late of this wars purpose?
he is come to open the purple testament of bleeding war;but ere the crown he looks for live in peace,ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers sons shall ill become the flower of englands face,change the complexion of her maid-pale peace to scarlet indignation,and bedew her pastures grass with faithful english blood.
i think it be.
now,blessing on thee!
what cause of suspicion?
if he will take it,so.
nay,twill be this hour ere i have done weeping;all the kind of the lances have this very fault.
through the velvet leaves the wind,all unseen,can passage find;that the lover,sick to death,wished himself the heavens breath.
from this session interdict every fowl of tyrant wing,save the eagle,featherd king;keep the obsequy so strict.
where is thy lady?
o,the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us!
you know your places.
my lord,there is a messenger from rome desires to be admitted to your presence.
i strike quickly,being moved.
twenty-three days they have been absent:tis good speed;foretells the great apollo suddenly will have the truth of this appear.
i dare be sworn.
sir nathaniel,as concerning some entertainment of time,some show in the posterior of this day,to be rendered by our assistance,the kings command,and this most gallant,illustrate,and learned gentleman,before the princess,i say,none so fit as to present the nine worthies.
peaseblossom!
tis no matter;let it go.
why,very well.
consider,hes an enemy to mankind.
brave burgundy,undoubted hope of france,stay,let thy humble handmaid speak to thee.
the purest of their wives is foul as slander.
yet that which seems the wound to kill doth turn o ho!
go,call her in.
henceforth be never numberd among men!
what should i speak?
no abuse,hal;none,ned,none;no,faith,boys,none.
thou speakst aright;i am that merry wanderer of the night.
what piles of wealth hath he accumulated to his own portion!
i do not sue to stand.
about the mount misena.
and if thou prate of mountains,let them throw millions of acres on us,till our ground,singeing his pate against the burning zone,make ossa like a wart.
a message well sympathized:a horse to be ambassador for an ass.
but soft,whom have we here?
o gentle lady,tis not for you to hear what i can speak:the repetition,in a womans ear,would murder as it fell.
we shall hear more anon.
for myself,son,i purpose not to wait on fortune till these wars determine.
heres our own hands against our hearts.
do you not jest?
o good old man,how well in thee appears the constant service of the antique world,when service sweat for duty,not for meed.
let him appear thats come from antony.
you shall not be admitted to his sight.
as for you,interpreter,you must seem very politic.
you whoreson cur!
i would it had been of horse.
ay,sir.
then let her alone.
see where he is,whos with him,what he does.
the service of the foot,being once gangrened,is not then respected for what before it was.
sometime he runs among a flock of sheep,to make the cunning hounds mistake their smell,and sometime where earth-delving conies keep,to stop the loud pursuers in their yell,and sometime sorteth with a herd of deer;danger deviseth shifts,wit waits on fear.
fare you well.
titania,music call;and strike more dead than common sleep,of all these five the sense.
but look,amazement on thy mother sits.
thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.
safe,antony;brutus is safe enough.
and you are well met,signior hortensio.
there is a fat friend at your masters house,that kitchend me for you today at dinner.
a mighty strength they carry.
for in the shade of death i shall find joy,in life but double death,now gloucesters dead.
god keep lead out of me,i need no more weight than mine own bowels.
most certain.
your grace may do your pleasure.
that last is true;the sweeter rest was mine.
come you hither,sirrah;a word in your ear:sir,i say to you,it is thought you are false knaves.
there is no sure foundation set on blood,no certain life achievd by others death.
you may do it in an hour,sir.
my lord of kent:remember him hereafter as my honourable friend.
captain ill be no more,but i will eat,and drink,and sleep as soft as captain shall.
for from broad words,and cause he faild his presence at the tyrants feast,i hear,macduff lives in disgrace.
he came not through the chamber where we stayd.
speak to be understood.
then be it as you will;for tis my right,and henry but usurps the diadem.
when i wore it at your daughters marriage?
shes a lamb,a dove,a fool,to him.
i have no hope that hes undrownd.
do me right,or i will protest your cowardice.
my present business calls me from you now.
he meant he did me none;the more my spite.
you jig,you amble,and you lisp,and nickname gods creatures,and make your wantonness your ignorance.
where the place?
besides,there is no king,be his cause never so spotless,if it come to the arbitrement of swords,can try it out with all unspotted soldiers.
can the sons eye behold his father bleed?
tremble,thou wretch,that hast within thee undivulged crimes unwhippd of justice.
o,you have made good work!
then yield thee,coward,and live to be the show and gaze o th time.
then is your cause gone too.
please you dismiss me either with ay or no.
poor corydon must live alone;other help for him i see that there is none.
o you gods divine,make cressids name the very crown of falsehood,if ever she leave troilus!
go in with me,and i will tell you my drift.
come,stand thou by our side;make thy demand aloud.
tell him,toward swinstead,to the abbey there.
how blow?
go thy way,hector!
you have a daughter called elizabeth,virtuous and fair,royal and gracious.
how now!
then came each actor on his ass the best actors in the world,either for tragedy,comedy,history,pastoral,pastoral-comical,historical-pastoral,tragical-historical,tragical-comical-historical-pastoral,scene individable,or poem unlimited.
anjou and maine!
ay,madam,it is common.
is this the nature whom passion could not shake?
as thus,to drop them still upon one place till they have fretted us a pair of graves within the earth;and,therein laid,there lies two kinsmen digged their graves with weeping eyes.
who of my people hold him in delay?
very like;one of them is a plain fish,and,no doubt,marketable.
sweet father,if i shall be thought thy son,let me redeem my brothers both from death.
go to,sirrah,tell the king from me that,for his fathers sake,henry the fifth,in whose time boys went to span-counter for french crowns,i am content he shall reign,but ill be protector over him.
see,my women,against the blown rose may they stop their nose that kneeled unto the buds.
therefore prepare thyself;the bark is ready,and the wind at help,thassociates tend,and everything is bent for england.
my children too?
why,then will i no more.
what verse for it?
i will not love;if i do,hang me!
honours thrive when rather from our acts we them derive than our fore-goers.
i doubt it not,and all these woes shall serve for sweet discourses in our time to come.
give me mine armour.
mamillius,art thou my boy?
it is a cursed haste you made if you have done so quickly!
i would you would accept of grace and love.
the kings coming;i know by his trumpets.
let me choose,for as i am,i live upon the rack.
but what need i thus my well-known body to anatomize among my household?
i do nothing doubt you have store of thieves;notwithstanding,i fear not my ring.
therefore your oaths are words and poor conditions;but unseald,at least in my opinion.
but seven years since,in syracusa,boy,thou knowst we parted;but perhaps,my son,thou shamst to acknowledge me in misery.
for shame,my liege,make them your precedent.
nay,let me praise you while i have a stomach.
whateer you are,youre mine,and i shall give you to a most noble service:to this lady,this bright young virgin;pray,observe her goodness.
lo you,my lord,the net has falln upon me.
they have travelld all the night?
as i am made without him,so ill stand,if the king please.
how now,my friend!
heaven comfort her!
when he came to himself again,he said,if he had done or said anything amiss,he desird their worships to think it was his infirmity.
his honour and myself are at the one,and at the other is my good friend catesby,where nothing can proceed that toucheth us whereof i shall not have intelligence.
what never-dying honour hath he got against renowned douglas!
look here,iago;all my fond love thus do i blow to heaven.
my friend,carry your tail without offence or scandal to the ladies;and be sure you tumble with audacity and manhood;and when you bark,do it with judgement.
ay,but yet let us be keen,and rather cut a little than fall and bruise to death.
i do not know the matter.
truth is that fulvia,to have me out of egypt,made wars here,for which myself,the ignorant motive,do so far ask pardon as befits mine honour to stoop in such a case.
alack,alack,edmund,i like not this unnatural dealing.
to beg of thee,it is my more dishonour than thou of them.
she is at the court and no less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter,and never two ladies loved as they do.
what joy is joy,if silvia be not by?
i am no viper,yet i feed on mothers flesh which did me breed.
why,didst thou not come from heaven?
i think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties.
the paper hath cut her throat already.
mistress,that you know.
i love you with so much of my heart that none is left to protest.
lights,more lights!
the weird sisters,hand in hand,posters of the sea and land,thus do go about,about:thrice to thine,and thrice to mine,and thrice again,to make up nine.
that blow did bail it from the deep unrest of that polluted prison where it breathed.
wilt thou serve me?
so is the queen,that most desird the match.
some say the bee stings,but i say tis the bees wax;for i did but seal once to a thing,and i was never mine own man since.
and one thing more,that you be never so hardy to come again in his affairs,unless it be to report your lords taking of this.
a foolish thought,to say a sorry sight.
five times,martius,i have fought with thee;so often hast thou beat me and wouldst do so,i think,should we encounter as often as we eat.
turn back,dull earth,and find thy centre out.
but how is it that great plantagenet is crowned so soon and broke his solemn oath?
all blessd secrets,all you unpublishd virtues of the earth,spring with my tears!
tis true,my lords,he did.
call her before us,for we have been too slight in sufferance.
tis bargaind twixt us twain,being alone,that she shall still be curst in company.
not i,my lord,unless i did bleed too.
welcome,my lord.
pray draw near.
thou comest to the lady olivia,and in my sight she uses thee kindly:but thou liest in thy throat;that is not the matter i challenge thee for.
and this withal.
jesu bless us!
he had him from me christian,and look if the fat villain have not transformed him ape.
good words are better than bad strokes,octavius.
and his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of holy bread.
god save thee,noble consul.
nay,stay thou out for earnest.
what is the figure?
and that she should love this fellow,and refuse me!
o me,my heart,my rising heart!
yes,if i make my play.
prithee,let her alone,and list to me.
and so,good rest.
lower messes perchance are to this business purblind?
the ruddock would,with charitable bill(o bill,sore shaming those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie without a monument!
now tell me,i pray,you that durst swear that your mistress bianca lovd none in the world so well as lucentio.
tis yours,and we,your scutcheons and your signs of conquest,shall hang in what place you please.
this she wishd me to make known;but our great court made me to blame in memory.
well revenge his death.
i pray you be my mean to bring me where to speak with madam silvia.
an honour!
bring him forth.
being thus benetted round with villanies,or i could make a prologue to my brains,they had begun the play,i sat me down,devisd a new commission,wrote it fair:i once did hold it,as our statists do,a baseness to write fair,and labourd much how to forget that learning;but,sir,now it did me yeomans service.
who are they?
like enough you do.
the appellant in all duty greets your highness and craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
this jest is dry to me.
peace,foolish woman.
o no,my nephew must not know,sir richard,the liberal and kind offer of the king.
ill not be struck,my lord.
bear for it,master.
if your honour judge it meet,i will place you where you shall hear us confer of this,and by an auricular assurance have your satisfaction,and that without any further delay than this very evening.
no achilles with him.
as you and lord aeneas consent upon the order of their fight,so be it;either to the uttermost,or else a breath.
ill trust by leisure him that mocks me once;thee never,nor thy traitorous haughty sons,confederates all thus to dishonour me.
neighbours and friends,though bride and bridegroom wants for to supply the places at the table,you know there wants no junkets at the feast.
a man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king,and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
for they are worthy to inlay heaven with stars.
clifford,devise excuses for thy faults.
setting my knighthood and my soldiership aside,i had lied in my throat if i had said so.
and still is friend to him and margaret.
subtle as sphinx,as sweet and musical as bright apollos lute,strung with his hair.
thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land,wherein thou liest in reputation sick;and thou,too careless patient as thou art,committst thy anointed body to the cure of those physicians that first wounded thee.
here i kneel.
am i but three inches?
a charge we bear i th war,and,as the president of my kingdom,will appear there for a man.
they are both the varnish of a complete man.
this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter,and,my fortunes against any lay worth naming,this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.
shall i tell you,cousin?
let him that thinks of me so abjectly know that this gold must coin a stratagem,which,cunningly effected,will beget a very excellent piece of villainy.
your honours in all duty,venus and adonis even as the sun with purple-colourd face had taen his last leave of the weeping morn,rose-cheekd adonis tried him to the chase;hunting he lovd,but love he laughd to scorn;sick-thoughted venus makes amain unto him,and like a bold-facd suitor gins to woo him.
come,gentlemen,i hope we shall drink down all unkindness.
and though myself have been an idle truant,omitting the sweet benefit of time to clothe mine age with angel-like perfection,yet hath sir proteus,for thats his name,made use and fair advantage of his days:his years but young,but his experience old;his head unmellowed,but his judgement ripe;and in a word,for far behind his worth comes all the praises that i now bestow,he is complete in feature and in mind,with all good grace to grace a gentleman.
but i pray you,sir,are you fast married?
you are perfect.
if thy greatness will,revenge it on him,for i know thou darst;but this thing dare not,thats most certain.
what,dear sir,thus raps you?
hes sudden if a thing comes in his head.
wherein crafty,but in villany?
why,the house you dwell in proclaims you to be a creature of sale.
past cure i am,now reason is past care,and frantic-mad with evermore unrest,my thoughts and my discourse as mad mens are,at random from the truth vainly expressed.
would it apply well to the vehemency of your affection that i should win what you would enjoy?
you need not fear it,sir:this child was prisoner to the womb,and is,by law and process of great nature thence freed and enfranchisd:not a party to the anger of the king,nor guilty of,if any be,the trespass of the queen.
whats your name?
whats thy offence,claudio?
my shroud of white,stuck all with yew,o,prepare it!
we shall obey,were she ten times our mother.
ay me,this tyrant fever burns me up and will not let me welcome this good news.
that labour may you save.
and this to yours.
ay,i thank god,my father,and yourself.
she must have change,she must.
pray god your voice,like a piece of uncurrent gold,be not cracked within the ring.
where am i now?
these vows are hermias:will you give her oer?
the king doth love you well.
is sportful edward come?
howbeit,i thank you.
art not ashamd to look upon this beard?
i will,my lord,and doubt not so to deal as all things shall redound unto your good.
have you provided me here half a dozen sufficient men?
heavens offer we refuse,the proffered means of succour and redress.
these words hereafter thy tormentors be!
shall i tell you a thing?
in a tomb where never scandal slept,save this of hers,framd by thy villainy!
but here comes antony.
she is damnd for it.
these eyes could not endure that beautys wrack;you should not blemish it if i stood by.
i am your butt,and i abide your shot.
but no more of this.
i do remember an apothecary,and hereabouts he dwells,which late i noted in tatterd weeds,with overwhelming brows,culling of simples,meagre were his looks,sharp misery had worn him to the bones;and in his needy shop a tortoise hung,an alligator stuffd,and other skins of ill-shaped fishes;and about his shelves a beggarly account of empty boxes,green earthen pots,bladders,and musty seeds,remnants of packthread,and old cakes of roses were thinly scatterd,to make up a show.
i have lost my gown.
a soothsayer bids you beware the ides of march.
yet bend not all the harm upon yourself;make those that do offend you suffer too.
what means this jest,i pray you,master,tell me?
what mean you,madam?
monster,come,put some lime upon your fingers,and away with the rest.
here in the streets,desperate of shame and state,in private brabble did we apprehend him.
it was thy masters;shrew me,if i would lose it for a revenue of any kings in europe!
i have cried her almost to the number of her hairs;i have drawn her picture with my voice.
lucio,a word with you.
is this true,nerissa?
thy flatterers yet wear silk,drink wine,lie soft,hug their diseased perfumes,and have forgot that ever timon was.
o heavenly mingle!
away,captains!
very well.
and my demerits may speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune as this that i have reachd.
sir,to satisfy you in what i have said,stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
you do love my lord.
and if i have not,sir,i hope you have,or else you may return without your money.
heaven shield your grace from woe,as i,thus wronged,hence unbelieved go.
there is no slander in an allowed fool,though he do nothing but rail;nor no railing in a known discreet man,though he do nothing but reprove.
are you a married man or a bachelor?
alas,thou hast misconstrued everything!
sir,you have saved my longing,and i feed most hungerly on your sight.
this way,or not at all,stand you in hope.
my fellow-ministers are like invulnerable.
i read it in the grammar long ago.
damnd pisanio hath with his forged letters(damnd pisanio)from this most bravest vessel of the world struck the main-top.
and true he swore,though yet forsworn he were.
and yet,for mine own part,sir,i do not care;but rather because i am unwilling,and,for mine own part,have a desire to stay with my friends;else,sir,i did not care,for mine own part,so much.
therefore i came unto your majesty.
these flowrs are like the pleasures of the world;this bloody man,the care ont.
now,good mistress anne.
but,before god,kate,i cannot look greenly,nor gasp out my eloquence,nor i have no cunning in protestation;only downright oaths,which i never use till urgd,nor never break for urging.
first mend my company,take away thyself.
therefore no more,but to the matter.
heres too much out upon thee;i pray thee,let me in.
what hour is this?
in a false quarrel there is no true valour.
comst thou again for ransom?
great duke of lancaster,i come to thee from plume-plucked richard,who with willing soul adopts thee heir,and his high sceptre yields to the possession of thy royal hand.
god give me patience!
fear we broadsides?
come away.
exclaim no more against it.
come,lead me to the block.
more light and light,more dark and dark our woes.
i wot your love pursues a banished traitor.
i will anon.
what he hath lost,noble macbeth hath won.
look,lucius,heres the book i sought for so;i put it in the pocket of my gown.
nothing,my lord.
de nick,madame.
he restored her as your stoln jewel and desired your spirit to send him hence forgiven.
ay,thou wast born to be a plague to men.
but heavenly rosalind!
think you so,sir?
get you to church,and have a good priest that can tell you what marriage is.
ask me what question thou canst possible,and i will answer unpremeditated.
yet tell her of it:hear what she will say.
i dare damnation.
so foul a sky clears not without a storm.
lend me thy handkerchief.
then you live about her waist,or in the middle of her favours?
can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
ill be hanged,though,if he dare venture.
servilius,help!
commend me bountifully to his good lordship,and i hope his honour will conceive the fairest of me,because i have no power to be kind.
and what say you to this?
charge me!
what prisoner was t that told me when i enquired their names?
thou art a soul in bliss;but i am bound upon a wheel of fire,that mine own tears do scald like molten lead.
there will i make thee a bed of roses,with a thousand fragrant posies,a cap of flowers,and a kirtle embroidered all with leaves of myrtle.
thats my fear.
i am known to be a humorous patrician and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying tiber int;said to be something imperfect in favouring the first complaint,hasty and tinder-like upon too trivial motion;one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning.
i am glad they are going,for sure,theres no converting of em.
he will make you a hundred and fifty pounds jointure.
but since she did neglect her looking-glass and threw her sun-expelling mask away,the air hath starved the roses in her cheeks and pinched the lily-tincture of her face,that now she is become as black as i.
both have i spilled.
tut,i came not to hear this.
if you be mad,be gone;if you have reason,be brief:tis not that time of moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue.
and,my gracious duke,be it so she will not here before your grace consent to marry with demetrius,i beg the ancient privilege of athens:as she is mine i may dispose of her;which shall be either to this gentleman or to her death,according to our law immediately provided in that case.
for,ere demetrius lookd on hermias eyne,he haild down oaths that he was only mine;and when this hail some heat from hermia felt,so he dissolvd,and showers of oaths did melt.
away,away,good william de la pole!
if once it be neglected,ten to one we shall not find like opportunity.
hear me,grave fathers;noble tribunes,stay!
i leave him to your gracious acceptance,whose trial shall better publish his commendation.
that diamond upon your finger,say how came it yours?
thy due from me is tears and heavy sorrows of the blood,which nature,love,and filial tenderness,shall,o dear father,pay thee plenteously.
have you heard of no likely wars toward,twixt the two dukes of cornwall and albany?
come,bid me do anything for thee.
how shall they credit a poor unlearned virgin,when the schools,embowelld of their doctrine,have let off the danger to itself?
right,sir,ill tell you when an youll tell me wherefore.
mercy on these princes.
it stands your grace upon to do him right.
and those repeated vexations of it!
that banished,that one word banished,hath slain ten thousand tybalts.
come,leave your tears.
i must be gone and live,or stay and die.
we three to hear it and end it between them.
you have the honey still,but these the gall;so to be valiant is no praise at all.
thou has spoken no word all this while.
i fixed my note constantly on them,for they were a mark worth a gods view.
we must receive him according to the honour of his sender;and towards himself,his goodness forespent on us,we must extend our notice.
fery well;what is it?
be it so,lysander:find you out a bed,for i upon this bank will rest my head.
ere i could tell him how i would think on him at certain hours such thoughts and such;or i could make him swear the shes of italy should not betray mine interest and his honour;or have chargd him,at the sixth hour of morn,at noon,at midnight,t encounter me with orisons,for then i am in heaven for him;or ere i could give him that parting kiss which i had set betwixt two charming words,comes in my father,and like the tyrannous breathing of the north shakes all our buds from growing.
sawst thou not,boy,how silver made it good at the hedge-corner,in the coldest fault?
and here an engine fit for my proceeding.
nay,he is dead,and slain by edwards hand.
give me the map there.
we have received your letters,full of love;your favours,the ambassadors of love;and in our maiden council rated them at courtship,pleasant jest,and courtesy,as bombast and as lining to the time.
sure,he is much afflicted.
heaven give thee moving graces.
most excellent,i faith!
therefore i do it,and i make no doubt the rest will neer come in,if he be out.
i will stop your mouth.
how canst thou thus,for shame,titania,glance at my credit with hippolyta,knowing i know thy love to theseus?
it boots thee not to be compassionate.
ill after them.
you,sir,charge him too coldly.
to england,if you will.
it must not be,there is no power in venice can alter a decree established;twill be recorded for a precedent,and many an error by the same example will rush into the state.
farewell,my gracious lord.
not to be married,not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
here can i sit alone,unseen of any,and to the nightingales complaining notes tune my distresses and record my woes.
the precedent whereof in lucrece view,assailed by night with circumstances strong of present death,and shame that might ensue by that her death,to do her husband wrong.
how now!
i am thoroughly weary.
their sweetest shade a grove of cypress-trees!
did not i bid thee still mark me,and do as i do?
i suspect without cause,mistress,do i?
this wins him,liver and all.
they are gone but to meet the duke,villain,do not say they be fled.
peace,ye fat-kidneyed rascal!
no,if i digged up thy forefathers graves and hung their rotten coffins up in chains,it could not slake mine ire nor ease my heart.
take her hence:her heart is but oerchargd;she will recover.
whilst i remember her and her virtues,i cannot forget my blemishes in them;and so still think of the wrong i did myself:which was so much that heirless it hath made my kingdom,and destroyd the sweetst companion that eer man bred his hopes out of.
good my lord,hear me.
i was moved withal.
better,o my conscience,was never soldiers friend.
i am the douglas,fatal to all those that wear those colours on them.
look to your house,your daughter,and your bags!
wheres hector?
why,what art thou?
i will not struggle,i will stand stone-still.
no,nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
look upon his face.
o,had the gods done so,i had not now worthily termd them merciless to us.
this act will be my fame and thy perpetual infamy.
whats the matter?
what wouldst?
how green!
let not the hours of this ungodly day wear out the day in peace;but,ere sunset,set armed discord twixt these perjurd kings!
besides i say,and will in battle prove,or here or elsewhere to the furthest verge that ever was surveyed by english eye,that all the treasons for these eighteen years complotted and contrived in this land fetch from false mowbray their first head and spring.
this is it,adam,that grieves me,and the spirit of my father,which i think is within me,begins to mutiny against this servitude.
i shall not break your bidding,good my lord.
your eyes do make no coaches;in your tears there is no certain princess that appears.
no,certainly.
depart the chamber,leave us here alone.
bar harry england,that sweeps through our land with pennons painted in the blood of harfleur.
a murdrous guilt shows not itself more soon than love that would seem hid.
why,then you must.
no,it islapis.
the tyrant custom,most grave senators,hath made the flinty and steel couch of war my thrice-driven bed of down:i do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity i find in hardness,and do undertake this present wars against the ottomites.
his taints and honours waged equal with him.
i,by the honour of my marriage-bed,after young arthur,claim this land for mine;and,now it is half-conquerd,must i back because that john hath made his peace with rome?
possess us,possess us,tell us something of him.
mean you to enjoy him?
i have writ me here a letter to her;and here another to pages wife,who even now gave me good eyes too,examined my parts with most judicious oeillades.
to satisfy my lady.
o false cressid!
but lend it rather to thine enemy,who if he break,thou mayst with better face exact the penalty.
that codding spirit had they from their mother,as sure a card as ever won the set;that bloody mind i think they learned of me,as true a dog as ever fought at head.
no,not take interest,not,as you would say,directly interest;mark what jacob did.
hence,mardian,and bring me how he takes my death.
outtrue;out indeed.
o you gods!
o hell!
why,this that i speak of.
thats very true,my lord.
why then you are in love.
how have i been behavd,that he might stick the smallst opinion on my least misuse?
draw our throne into a sheepcote!
hath the count all this intelligence?
and why indeed naso,but for smelling out the odoriferous flowers of fancy,the jerks of invention?
tis done already,and messenger gone.
of very ill manner;hell speak with you,will you or no.
gloucester,i do defy thee.
to vex thee.
i have possessd your grace of what i purpose,and by our holy sabbath have i sworn to have the due and forfeit of my bond.
that i was he,speak,iachimo.
ah,thought i,thou mournst in vain!
do you hear,you minion?
let me bid you welcome,my lord:being reconciled to the prince your brother,i owe you all duty.
well once more hear orsinos embassy.
ant please your worship,theres one pistol come from the court with news.
welcome,lady.
but tis a spirit.
nay,that a did not.
he left behind him myself and a sister,both born in an hour.
fly,noble english,you are bought and sold;unthread the rude eye of rebellion and welcome home again discarded faith.
how he describes himself!
no,let me know,and knowing what i am,i know what she shall be.
as we paced along upon the giddy footing of the hatches,methought that gloucester stumbled,and in falling,struck me,that thought to stay him,overboard into the tumbling billows of the main.
i have been worth the whistle.
young fry of treachery!
why,all our ranks are broke.
if this may please you,discharge your powers unto their several counties,as we will ours;and here between the armies lets drink together friendly and embrace,that all their eyes may bear those tokens home of our restored love and amity.
death of one person can be paid but once,and that she has discharged.
look in my face.
murder indeed,that bloody sin,i tortured above the felon or what trespass else.
mark what mercy his mother shall bring from him.
come,sir,despatch.
she at tarsus was nursed with cleon;who at fourteen years he sought to murder:but her better stars brought her to mytilene;gainst whose shore riding,her fortunes brought the maid aboard us,where by her own most clear remembrance,she made known herself my daughter.
a monk o th chartreux.
but to answer you as you would be understood:he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk;he hath confessed himself to morgan,whom he supposes to be a friar,from the time of his remembrance to this very instant disaster of his setting i the stocks.
thither will i invite the duke and alls contented followers.
tis a lucky day,boy,and well do good deeds on t.
he cried to me;i saw him prisoner;but then aufidius was within my view,and wrath oerwhelmed my pity.
who doth ambition shun and loves to live i th sun,seeking the food he eats and pleased with what he gets,come hither,come hither,come hither.
but this place is too cold for hell.
this pert berowne was out of countenance quite.
so wouldst thou,if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously tempered as mine is to thee.
go,fellow,go.
didst thou at first,to flatter us withal,make us partakers of a little gain,that now our loss might be ten times so much?
exeter,thou art a traitor to the crown in following this usurping henry.
by this marriage all little jealousies,which now seem great,and all great fears,which now import their dangers,would then be nothing.
at pembroke,or at harfordwest in wales.
perceive you none that do arouse your pity but th unconsidered soldier?
be satisfied;your brother dies tomorrow;be content.
stanley,he is your wifes son.
