why dost thou cry alas?
what think you,if he were conveyd to bed,wrappd in sweet clothes,rings put upon his fingers,a most delicious banquet by his bed,and brave attendants near him when he wakes,would not the beggar then forget himself?
ill take that winter from your lips,fair lady.
and are not you my husband?
is the duke of exeter safe?
pray you,sir,whos his tailor?
beshrew the winners,for they played me false!
out,dunghill!
then should i spur though mounted on the wind,in winged speed no motion shall i know,then can no horse with my desire keep pace,therefore desire(of perfectst love being made)shall neigh no dull flesh in his fiery race,but love,for love,thus shall excuse my jade:since from thee going,he went wilful-slow,towards thee ill run,and give him leave to go.
i come to observe;i give thee warning ont.
that exceeds,they say.
but man,proud man,dressed in a little brief authority,most ignorant of what hes most assured,his glassy essence,like an angry ape plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven as makes the angels weep;who,with our spleens,would all themselves laugh mortal.
give me thy arm:poor tom shall lead thee.
alack,my lord,what may you mean by that?
hearst thou,pisanio?
if i be false,or swerve a hair from truth,when time is old and hath forgot itself,when waterdrops have worn the stones of troy,and blind oblivion swallowd cities up,and mighty states characterless are grated to dusty nothingyet let memory from false to false,among false maids in love,upbraid my falsehood when th have said as false as air,as water,wind,or sandy earth,as fox to lamb,or wolf to heifers calf,pard to the hind,or stepdame to her son yea,let them say,to stick the heart of falsehood,as false as cressid.
sweet roses do not so,of their sweet deaths,are sweetest odours made:and so of you,beauteous and lovely youth,when that shall fade,my verse distills your truth.
now,fair befall you!
my lord?
no,my profound heart:and yet,by the very fangs of malice i swear,i am not that i play.
look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest,now is the time that face should form another,whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,thou dost beguile the world,unbless some mother.
then pleaded i for you.
for the defence of a town our general is excellent.
fie,you confine yourself most unreasonably.
offended us you have not,but the king.
but first,go and set london bridge on fire;and,if you can,burn down the tower too.
thambassadors from norway,my good lord,are joyfully returnd.
if that my cousin king be king in england,it must be granted i am duke of lancaster.
yet one thing more,good captain,do for me.
why may not he rise as well as i?
guess thou the rest:king edwards friends must down.
brother,thou shalt to london presently,and whet on warwick to this enterprise.
thou liest,thou shag-eard villain!
soldiers,defer the spoil of the city until night;for with these borne before us instead of maces will we ride through the streets,and at every corner have them kiss.
o,temperance,lady!
by your patience,i may not suffer you to visit them.
a fire,good curtis.
i do believe it;for they passd by me as misers do by beggars,neither gave to me good word nor look.
i am denied to sue my livery here,and yet my letters patents give me leave.
beware my follower.
thou hast spoken all already,unless thou canst say they are married;but thou art too fine in thy evidence;therefore stand aside.
gods will!
against my love shall be as i am now with times injurious hand crushed and oerworn,when hours have drained his blood and filled his brow with lines and wrinkles,when his youthful morn hath travelled on to ages steepy night,and all those beauties whereof now hes king are vanishing,or vanished out of sight,stealing away the treasure of his spring:for such a time do i now fortify against confounding ages cruel knife,that he shall never cut from memory my sweet loves beauty,though my lovers life.
so shall you quietly enjoy your hope,and marry sweet bianca with consent.
pray can i not,though inclination be as sharp as will:my stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,and,like a man to double business bound,i stand in pause where i shall first begin,and both neglect.
thou liest.
my noble father,three times today i holp him to his horse,three times bestrid him;thrice i led him off,persuaded him from any further act;but still,where danger was,still there i met him,and like rich hangings in a homely house,so was his will in his old feeble body.
thou liest.
they are about the court,and,as i think,they have already order this night to play before him.
ah,sir,theres many a greek and trojan dead,since first i saw yourself and diomed in ilion on your greekish embassy.
but the bottom of the news is,our general is cut i th middle and but one half of what he was yesterday,for the other has half,by the entreaty and grant of the whole table.
his mother was a votress of my order,and in the spicd indian air,by night,full often hath she gossipd by my side;and sat with me on neptunes yellow sands,marking th embarkd traders on the flood,when we have laughd to see the sails conceive,and grow big-bellied with the wanton wind;which she,with pretty and with swimming gait following(her womb then rich with my young squire),would imitate,and sail upon the land,to fetch me trifles,and return again,as from a voyage,rich with merchandise.
i will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,and thus my battle shall be ordered:my foreward shall be drawn out all in length,consisting equally of horse and foot;our archers shall be placed in the midst.
and,amen,the other,as they had seen me with these hangmans hands.
a question not to be asked.
i am not stephano,but a cramp.
for jaquenetta,so is the weaker vessel called which i apprehended with the aforesaid swain,i keep her as a vessel of thy laws fury,and shall,at the least of thy sweet notice,bring her to trial.
let the priest in surplice white,that defunctive music can,be the death-divining swan,lest the requiem lack his right.
i have been the book of his good acts,whence men have read his fame unparalleled happily amplified;for i have ever verified my friends of whom hes chiefwith all the size that verity would without lapsing suffer.
what countryman,i pray?
well talk with margaret,how her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
so do i,my lord,they are entirely welcome.
i know this;and thus i challenge it.
let me confess that we two must be twain,although our undivided loves are one:so shall those blots that do with me remain,without thy help,by me be borne alone.
no,no,orlando,men are april when they woo,december when they wed.
let the court of france show me such another.
for my sake,be comfortable.
theseus,who where he threats appalls,hath sent deadly defiance to him and pronounces ruin to thebes,who is at hand to seal the promise of his wrath.
i met the duke yesterday,and had much question with him.
but thou art fair,and at thy birth,dear boy,nature and fortune joind to make thee great.
come,warble,come.
who wouldst thou serve?
i am hungry for revenge,and now i cloy me with beholding it.
let me see t,let me see t!
the duke be here tonight?
urge me no more,i shall forget myself;have mind upon your health,tempt me no farther.
he wears a well-steeled axe,the staff of gold;his age some five-and-twenty.
here,my mad boys,have at ye.
if i gave them all my living,id keep my coxcombs myself.
he is a very proper man.
cannot be?
our spoils he kicked at;and looked upon things precious as they were the common muck of the world.
thanks,good my countryman.
i say this house is as dark as ignorance,though ignorance were as dark as hell;and i say there was never man thus abused.
it does well to those that do ill.
but a trifle neither,in good faith,if the learned should speak truth of it.
nay,if i turn mine eyes upon myself,i find myself a traitor with the rest;for i have given here my souls consent t undeck the pompous body of a king,made glory base and sovereignty a slave,proud majesty a subject,state a peasant.
half-sights saw that arcite was no babe.
what think you of this beauty?
therefore be gone,solicit me no more.
duke of bedford,brother to the king.
long after this,when henry the fifth,succeeding his father bolingbroke,did reign,thy father,earl of cambridge then,derived from famous edmund langley,duke of york,marrying my sister that thy mother was,again,in pity of my hard distress.
approach,ho!
cousins,indeed,and by their uncle cozened of comfort,kingdom,kindred,freedom,life.
i do not think so fair an outward and such stuff within endows a man but he.
why or for what the nobles were committed is all unknown to me,my gracious lord.
ay,ay.
no,not a word;how can i grace my talk,wanting a hand to give it action?
whether hadst thou rather be:a faulconbridge and like thy brother,to enjoy thy land,or the reputed son of cur-de-lion,lord of thy presence and no land besides?
o,had it been a stranger,not my child,to smooth his fault i should have been more mild.
sir,i am a poor friend of yours,that loves you.
do it presently!
success unto our valiant general,and happiness to his accomplices!
i am near to th place where they should meet,if pisanio have mappd it truly.
this is the most despiteful gentle greeting,the noblest hateful love,that eer i heard of.
why,you are so fat,sir john,that you must needs be out of all compass,out of all reasonable compass,sir john.
beseech your honour to make it known to us.
not i the stocks,fool.
if helen,then,be wife to spartas king as it is known she isthese moral laws of nature and of nations speak aloud to have her back returnd.
ladies,sit down.
for since the little wit that fools have was silenced,the little foolery that wise men have makes a great show.
melodious birds sing madrigals whenas i sat in pabylon and a thousand vagram posies.
what,all afoot?
yes,faith,my lord.
ist not so?
this will prove a brave kingdom to me,where i shall have my music for nothing.
look as the fair and fiery-pointed sun,rushing from forth a cloud,bereaves our sight;even so,the curtain drawn,his eyes begun to wink,being blinded with a greater light.
what friend?
whoever hath her wish,thou hast thy will,and will to boot,and will in overplus,more than enough am i that vex thee still,to thy sweet will making addition thus.
i cry your worships mercy,heartily.
i calld my love false love;but what said he then?
pandarus house.
not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy and vengeance bitter;but those that are germane to him,though removed fifty times,shall all come under the hangman:which,though it be great pity,yet it is necessary.
the witch shall die.
but i fear theyll roar him in again.
why,farewell,portia.
and,to inure thyself to what thou art like to be,cast thy humble slough and appear fresh.
if i must die,i will encounter darkness as a bride and hug it in mine arms.
methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
now,ursula,when beatrice doth come,as we do trace this alley up and down,our talk must only be of benedick:when i do name him,let it be thy part to praise him more than ever man did merit.
give me pen and ink.
and here in sight of heaven to rome i swear,if saturnine advance the queen of goths,she will a handmaid be to his desires,a loving nurse,a mother to his youth.
peace,headstrong warwick!
the like is on her arm.
to them a messenger.
why,anything.
his funerals shall not be in our camp,lest it discomfort us.
wherein,my friends,have i offended you?
a little thing would make me tell them how much i lack of a man.
did you not speak to it?
a whoreson tisick,a whoreson rascally tisick,so troubles me,and the foolish fortune of this girl,and what one thing,what another,that i shall leave you one o these days;and i have a rheum in mine eyes too,and such an ache in my bones that unless a man were cursd i cannot tell what to think ont.
then enter saturninus,tamora,bassianus,lavinia,chiron,demetrius,and their attendants.
by gar,i am cozened.
thou dost,and thinkst it much to tread the ooze of the salt deep,to run upon the sharp wind of the north,to do me business in the veins o th earth when it is bakd with frost.
yes,you are.
ill not budge an inch,boy:let him come,and kindly.
the vows of women of no more bondage be to where they are made than they are to their virtues,which is nothing.
how now,my hearts?
fresh lily,and whiter than the sheets!
well,sir,take your own time.
hectors trumpet.
not within,sir.
to thee?
then never dream on infamy,but go.
his fortune!
and so she doth,cousin.
for men have marble,women waxen,minds,and therefore are they formed as marble will;the weak oppressed,th impression of strange kinds is formed in them by force,by fraud,or skill.
send to his brother;fetch that gallant hither.
i take thee at thy word.
fie,fie,what tediosity and disinsanity is here among ye!
th advantage of his absence took the king and in the meantime sojournd at my fathers;where how he did prevail i shame to speak;but truth is truth:large lengths of seas and shores between my father and my mother lay,as i have heard my father speak himself,when this same lusty gentleman was got.
i will not,as you do,to worship her as she is heavenly and a blessed goddess.
at a word,hang no more about me,i am no gibbet for you.
for your mothers sake,and as you wish your womb may thrive with fair ones,hear and respect me.
ill never seet,for i am sure mine nails are stronger than mine eyes.
tis virtue that doth make them most admired;the contrary doth make thee wondered at.
i tell thee,pole,when in the city tours thou ranst atilt in honour of my love and stolst away the ladies hearts of france,i thought king henry had resembled thee in courage,courtship,and proportion.
yourself and i will not be there.
good my friends,if you have heard your general talk of rome and of his friends there,it is lots to blanks my name hath touched your ears.
hidst thou that forehead with a golden crown where should be branded,if that right were right,the slaughter of the prince that owed that crown,and the dire death of my poor sons and brothers?
witness,you ever-burning lights above,you elements that clip us round about,witness that here iago doth give up the execution of his wit,hands,heart,to wrongd othellos service!
o filthy traitor!
this day,in argument upon a case,some words there grew twixt somerset and me;among which terms he used his lavish tongue and did upbraid me with my fathers death;which obloquy set bars before my tongue,else with the like i had requited him.
caesar hath sent too slow a messenger.
we shall all follow,cousin.
grant,heavens,that which i fear prove false!
look here,love:this diamond was my mothers;take it,heart;but keep it till you woo another wife,when imogen is dead.
tell her so,and bid her think what a man is.
besides,the gods will have fulfilld their secret purposes;for has not the divine apollo said,is t not the tenor of his oracle,that king leontes shall not have an heir till his lost child be found?
for this time will i take my leave,my lord.
if you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
doth fortune play the huswife with me now?
i will weary you then no longer with idle talking.
by your leave,gentlemen.
tullus aufidius,is he within your walls?
my woman helen?
will you hence,before the tag return,whose rage doth rend like interrupted waters,and oerbear what they are used to bear?
follow the knave,and take this drab away.
well,there is sixpence to preserve thee.
how fiery and forward our pedant is!
but,sir,to love concerneth us to add her fathers liking;which to bring to pass,as i before imparted to your worship,i am to get a man,whateer he be it skills not much;well fit him to our turn,and he shall be vincentio of pisa,and make assurance here in padua,of greater sums than i have promised.
why,buckingham,i say i would be king.
but i do bend my speech to one that can my part in him advertise.
i dare assure you,sir,tis almost two,and twill be supper-time ere you come there.
run up,sir john.
what thinkst thou?
sir,will you hear me?
read oer this paper while the glass doth come.
how now?
why,thats some comfort.
mercy is not itself that oft looks so;pardon is still the nurse of second woe.
the ghost of banquo rises,and sits in macbeths place.
yet such extenuation let me beg as,in reproof of many tales devised,by smiling pickthanks and base newsmongers,which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear,i may for some things true,wherein my youth hath faulty wanderd and irregular,find pardon on my true submission.
but one,poor one,one poor and loving child,but one thing to rejoice and solace in,and cruel death hath catchd it from my sight.
so i hear.
that i beheld.
bully knight!
they fight.
let sin,alone committed,light alone upon his head that hath transgressed so;let guiltless souls be freed from guilty woe.
will you go to them?
sir,sooth to say,you did not dine at home.
fear not that,i warrant thee.
virtue and she is her own dower;honour and wealth from me.
music plays.
but speedily.
sblood,i am as melancholy as a gib cat or a lugged bear.
my cause is hearted;thine hath no less reason.
before the game is afoot thou still letst slip.
since no man has aught of what he leaves,what ist to leave betimes?
and,to his shape,were heir to all this land,would i might never stir from off this place,i would give it every foot to have this face.
why,villain,thou must know first.
as the poor frighted deer that stands at gaze,wildly determining which way to fly,or one encompassed with a winding maze,that cannot tread the way out readily;so with herself is she in mutiny,to live or die which of the twain were better,when life is shamed and death reproachs debtor.
sigh for the tooth-ache?
i am not vexd more at anything in th earth.
before thee stands this fair hesperides,with golden fruit,but dangerous to be touchd;for death-like dragons here affright thee hard:her face,like heaven,enticeth thee to view her countless glory,which desert must gain;and which,without desert,because thine eye presumes to reach,all the whole heap must die.
never could the strumpet with all her double vigour,art,and nature,once stir my temper,but this virtuous maid subdues me quite.
pardon,good mercutio,my business was great,and in such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
but we came to see the statue of our queen:your gallery have we passd through,not without much content in many singularities;but we saw not that which my daughter came to look upon,the statue of her mother.
my heart is with your liking.
you have lost no reputation at all,unless you repute yourself such a loser.
i love to cope him in these sullen fits,for then hes full of matter.
at last she calls to mind where hangs a piece of skilful painting,made for priams troy,before the which is drawn the power of greece,for helens rape the city to destroy,threatning cloud-kissing ilion with annoy;which the conceited painter drew so proud,as heaven,it seemed,to kiss the turrets bowed.
but now you partly may perceive my mind.
if thou consider rightly of the matter,caesar has had great wrong.
lose the tide,and the voyage,and the master,and the service,and the tied?
therefore,no more but this:henry,your sovereign,is prisoner to the foe,his state usurped,his realm a slaughter-house,his subjects slain,his statutes cancelled,and his treasure spent;and yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
if we shadows have offended,think but this,and all is mended,that you have but slumberd here while these visions did appear.
come hither,fellow:which way hast thou been?
o ill-dispersing wind of misery!
the devil take thee,coward!
being thus benetted round with villanies,or i could make a prologue to my brains,they had begun the play,i sat me down,devisd a new commission,wrote it fair:i once did hold it,as our statists do,a baseness to write fair,and labourd much how to forget that learning;but,sir,now it did me yeomans service.
then speak the truth by her;if not divine,yet let her be a principality,sovereign to all the creatures on the earth.
sweet prince,the untainted virtue of your years hath not yet dived into the worlds deceit,nor more can you distinguish of a man than of his outward show,which,god he knows,seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
byr lady,thirty years.
can it be,that so degenerate a strain as this should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
i did,my lord.
or,by jupiter i will not ask again.
so bad a death argues a monstrous life.
o,sir,are you come?
temperance was a delicate wench.
incapable and shallow innocents,you cannot guess who caused your fathers death.
blessed are you whose worthiness gives scope,being had to triumph,being lacked to hope.
alack,alack!
but are not some whole that we must make sick?
speak not of helena;take not her part;for if thou dost intend never so little show of love to her,thou shalt aby it.
and now,sweet emperor,be blithe again,and bury all thy fear in my devices.
care not for me;i can go home alone.
give me your hand.
honour,health,and compassion to the senate!
tis one of the best discretions of a oman as ever i did look upon.
father of warwick,know you what this means?
my noble lord,from eastcheap.
this good deed shall raze you out o th book of trespasses all you are set down there.
to bed,to bed,to bed.
ay,very well,my lord.
thou liest.
i will stand to,and feed,although my last,no matter,since i feel the best is past.
then whither he goes,thither let me go.
all this my sister is,or else should be.
this is the way to kindle,not to quench.
alas,alas,poor cousin palamon,poor prisoner,thou so little dreamst upon my fortune that thou thinkst thyself the happier thing,to be so near emilia;me thou deemst at thebes,and therein wretched,although free.
see for the news.
i take thee,rosalind,for wife.
discernst thou aught in that?
come,thou new ruin of old cliffords house;as did aeneas old anchises bear,so bear i thee upon my manly shoulders;but then aeneas bare a living load,nothing so heavy as these woes of mine.
master young man,you,i pray you;which is the way to master jews?
speak your griefs softly,i do know you well.
i will beat thee into handsomeness.
thy deeds,inhuman and unnatural,provokes this deluge most unnatural.
who thou wilt.
senseless linen,happier therein than i!
fill,lucius,till the wine oerswell the cup.
villain am i none;therefore farewell;i see thou knowst me not.
will your answer serve fit to all questions?
i know not which is which.
what you shall know meantime of stirs abroad,i shall beseech you,sir,to let me be partaker.
i prythee,boy,run to the senate-house;stay not to answer me,but get thee gone.
nay,that a did not.
not honestly,my lord;but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me.
give me some ink and paper in my tent;ill draw the form and model of our battle,limit each leader to his several charge,and part in just proportion our small power.
reverse thy state;and in thy best consideration check this hideous rashness:answer my life my judgement,thy youngest daughter does not love thee least;nor are those empty-hearted,whose low sounds reverb no hollowness.
well,i will be so much a sinner to be a double-dealer:theres another.
and take my heart with thee.
that you may know tis no sinister nor no awkward claim pickd from the worm-holes of long-vanishd days,nor from the dust of old oblivion rakd,he sends you this most memorable line,in every branch truly demonstrative;willing you overlook this pedigree;and when you find him evenly derivd from his most famd of famous ancestors,edward the third,he bids you then resign your crown and kingdom,indirectly held from him,the native and true challenger.
but your news is not true.
to see sad sights moves more than hear them told,for then the eye interprets to the ear the heavy motion that it doth behold,when every part a part of woe doth bear.
my steward!
it is not so.
now,by saint john,that news is bad indeed.
thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable.
three proper young men of excellent growth and presence.
but thieves unworthy of a thing so stoln that in their country did them that disgrace we fear to warrant in our native place!
thy sometimes brothers wife with her companion,grief,must end her life.
what ho,within!
his meanst garment!
this is all:dot,and thou hast the one half of my heart;dot not,thou splittst thine own.
mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,how to divide the conquest of thy sight,mine eye,my heart thy pictures sight would bar,my heart,mine eye the freedom of that right,my heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,a closet never pierced with crystal eyes;but the defendant doth that plea deny,and says in him thy fair appearance lies.
canst tell?
no,i defy all counsel,all redress,but that which ends all counsel,true redress,death,death,o amiable,lovely death!
thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
the time when?
they are all forth:well,i will walk myself to county paris,to prepare him up against tomorrow.
the more shame for him that he sends it me;for i have heard him say a thousand times his julia gave it him at his departure.
a cur,sir.
this way the stag took.
she must needs go in;her father will be angry.
what mean you,madam?
he must carry me a letter.
i would exult,man.
i saved her and set her safe to land,when presently she slipped away,and to the city made with such a cry and swiftness that,believe me,she left me far behind her.
now will i lead you to the house,and show you the lass i spoke of.
well bandied both;a set of wit well played.
the grecian camp.
thats not so good now.
your hunger needs no sauce,i see.
he doth revive again.
she gives it out that you shall marry her.
shall rotten death make conquest of the stronger,and leave the faltring feeble souls alive?
have i not tarried?
we will not fail.
john duke of norfolk,thomas earl of surrey,shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
what sin you do to save a brothers life,nature dispenses with the deed so far that it becomes a virtue.
yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor.
tis not due yet,i would be loth to pay him before his day.
by my head,here comes the capulets.
prithee,no more prattling.
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
see,where he lies inhearsed in the arms of the most bloody nurser of his harms.
how now,bardolph?
what stay had we but clarence?
and live you yet?
if you desire the spleen,and will laugh yourselves into stitches,follow me.
once more today well met,distemperd lords!
as thus,to drop them still upon one place till they have fretted us a pair of graves within the earth;and,therein laid,there lies two kinsmen digged their graves with weeping eyes.
why call you me love?
poor desdemona!
how now,bully rook?
ill not call you tyrant;but this most cruel usage of your queen,not able to produce more accusation than your own weak-hingd fancy,something savours of tyranny,and will ignoble make you,yea,scandalous to the world.
ill read,and answer.
there was nothing done to her once.
proceed,good alexander.
the poisoner woos the queen with gifts.
but are they,ariel,safe?
tis well bethought.
were you made the messenger?
have i a tongue to doom my brothers death,and shall that tongue give pardon to a slave?
thy wife too!
budge,says the fiend.
i am too blunt and saucy:heres my knee.
no so,my lord.
this inundation of mistemperd humour rests by you only to be qualified.
that dreamers often lie.
now stand you on the top of happy hours,and many maiden gardens yet unset,with virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,much liker than your painted counterfeit:so should the lines of life that life repair which this(times pencil)or my pupil pen neither in inward worth nor outward fair can make you live yourself in eyes of men.
but what of cicero?
no,good captain pistol,not here,sweet captain.
so,bless thee,master!
dionyza does appear,with leonine,a murderer.
you speak him far.
clerk,draw a deed of gift.
lets beat him before his whore.
o lord,i would it had been two!
love bade me swear,and love bids me forswear.
then have my lips the sin that they have took.
this shoe is my father.
go bear this letter to my lord of lancaster;this to the prince;this to the earl of westmoreland;and this to old mistress ursula,whom i have weekly sworn to marry since i perceived the first white hair of my chin.
my lord,ill hit him now.
he pours it out;plutus,the god of gold,is but his steward.
the young prince hath misled me.
peace,fool,hes not thy kinsman.
o god,what mischiefs work the wicked ones,heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!
who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners?
your grace must wait till you be called for.
my lord of burgundy,what say you to the lady?
what are you here that cry so grievously?
so help me every spirit sanctified,as i have spoken for you all my best,and stood within the blank of his displeasure for my free speech!
your accent is something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling.
ill keep them,by this hand!
help,grandsire,help!
ah,now no more will i control thy griefs.
tis like a coffin,sir.
is wretchedness deprivd that benefit to end itself by death?
farewell,coz.
and claudio lie,who lovd her so,that,speaking of her foulness,washd it with tears?
how many,as you guess?
ifaith,i am sorry that thou art not well.
if a mans brains were ins heels,weret not in danger of kibes?
now get thee hence.
for he the sacred honour of himself,his queens,his hopeful sons,his babes,betrays to slander,whose sting is sharper than the swords;and will not,(for,as the case now stands,it is a curse he cannot be compelld tot)once remove the root of his opinion,which is rotten as ever oak or stone was sound.
do your best wills,and make me blest to obey.
ay,to the leavening;but heres yet in the word hereafter the kneading,the making of the cake,the heating of the oven,and the baking;nay,you must stay the cooling too,or you may chance burn your lips.
the duke has lost hippolyta;each took a several land.
true,and they are to meddle with none but the princes subjects.
but both of you were vowed duke humphreys foes,and you,forsooth,had the good duke to keep.
i told my lord the duke,by th devils illusions the monk might be deceived,and that twas dangerous for him to ruminate on this so far until it forged him some design,which,being believed,it was much like to do.
there shall your master have a thousand loves,a mother,and a mistress,and a friend,a phoenix,captain,and an enemy,a guide,a goddess,and a sovereign,a counsellor,a traitress,and a dear:his humble ambition,proud humility,his jarring concord,and his discord dulcet,his faith,his sweet disaster;with a world of pretty,fond,adoptious christendoms that blinking cupid gossips.
fie,for godly shame!
bury him where you can,he comes not here.
by this day and this light,the fellow has mettle enough in his belly.
be woe for me,more wretched than he is.
who else should be?
my good friends,hark!
so,let the ports be guarded.
the foeman may with as great aim level at the edge of a penknife.
upon mine honour,thou shalt marry her.
why look you strange on me?
go with me,silvius.
fore god,my lord,well spoken,with good accent and good discretion.
if thou wantst anything and wilt not call,beshrew thy heart.
no,no,he cannot long hold out these pangs.
rather make my countrys high pyramides my gibbet and hang me up in chains!
of such a nature is his politic love.
harry le roy.
ay,sir.
never talk ont;she hath been colted by him.
i know my physic will work with him.
you know he brought me out o favour with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
this monument five hundred years hath stood,which i have sumptuously re-edified.
too late?
what,will you go unto the tower,my lord?
her mothers,i have heard.
if you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle head,you would eat chickens i th shell.
ill call them to you.
some other is more fit.
o lord,sir!
by my troth,i am sick.
as good as heart can wish.
better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
some rise by sin,and some by virtue fall.
you are afraid,if you see the bear loose,are you not?
a ladys verily is as potent as a lords.
neer shall this blood be wiped from thy point,but thou shalt wear it as a heralds coat to emblaze the honour that thy master got.
i am so full of business i cannot answer thee acutely.
this is his majesty,say your mind to him.
each new morn new widows howl,new orphans cry;new sorrows strike heaven on the face,that it resounds as if it felt with scotland,and yelld out like syllable of dolour.
i have no words;my voice is in my sword:thou bloodier villain than terms can give thee out!
first,what is your place?
how dost thou like this tune?
to be young again,if we could:i will be a fool in question,hoping to be the wiser by your answer.
have at the worst can come,then!
whos there?
it fits us then to be as provident as fears may teach us out of late examples left by the fatal and neglected english upon our fields.
my noble uncle,do you know the cause?
good day to you,gentle lord archbishop;and so to you,lord hastings,and to all.
what,man,more water glideth by the mill than wots the miller of;and easy it is of a cut loaf to steal a shive,we know.
the kings a beggar,now the play is done;all is well ended if this suit be won,that you express content;which we will pay with strife to please you,day exceeding day.
take her by the hand,and tell her she is thine;to whom i promise a counterpoise;if not to thy estate,a balance more replete.
you may go to the devils dam:your gifts are so good heres none will hold you.
peace,tender sapling;thou art made of tears,and tears will quickly melt thy life away.
bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,that nothing sung but death to us and ours;now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound,and his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
who might be your mother,that you insult,exult,and all at once,over the wretched?
the better for him:would i were so too!
infinite pity that four such eyes should be so fixed on one that two must needs be blind for t.
well,catesby,ere a fortnight make me older ill send some packing that yet think not ont.
for what?
my son came then into my mind,and yet my mind was then scarce friends with him.
how still the evening is,as hushd on purpose to grace harmony!
hear me,my liege:for mine own part,i could be well content to entertain the lag end of my life with quiet hours.
for the table,sir,it shall be served in;for the meat,sir,it shall be covered;for your coming in to dinner,sir,why,let it be as humours and conceits shall govern.
ho,ho,ho!
pardon me;if i were there,id wink.
i will unto the king,and whatsoeer you will employ me in,were it to call king edwards widow sister,i will perform it to enfranchise you.
how fares your grace?
nor his beauty.
o martius,martius,each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart a root of ancient envy.
art thou some god,some angel,or some devil,that makst my blood cold and my hair to stare?
to th syllable.
my lord,i looked you would have given me your petition that i should have taen some pains to bring together yourself and your accusers and to have heard you without endurance,further.
if this fall into thy hand,revolve.
what hath waked us from our dream?
madam,good hope;his grace speaks cheerfully.
the one is murder,and rape is the others name;and therefore bind them,gentle publius.
o,thats the sword to it.
we will not meddle with him till he come;for his presence must be the whip of the other.
now,by anchises life,welcome indeed!
then came wandring by a shadow like an angel,with bright hair dabbled in blood;and he shrieked out aloud clarence is comefalse,fleeting,perjured clarence,that stabbed me in the field by tewksbury!
here is a letter,lady,the paper as the body of my friend,and every word in it a gaping wound issuing life-blood.
for fear of which,hear this thou age unbred,ere you were born was beautys summer dead.
i would fain know what you have to say.
thus,brutus,did my master bid me kneel;thus did mark antony bid me fall down;and,being prostrate,thus he bade me say:brutus is noble,wise,valiant,and honest;caesar was mighty,bold,royal,and loving;say i love brutus and i honour him;say i feard caesar,honourd him,and lovd him.
tell me,and ill requite it with sweet rehearsal of my mornings dream.
now follow,if thou darst,to try whose right,of thine or mine,is most in helena.
all torment,trouble,wonder and amazement inhabits here.
would you not have me honest?
no more hearing.
approach the chamber,and destroy your sight with a new gorgon.
believe it,royal prince,if he be less,hes nothing;but hes more,had i more name for badness.
an expired date,cancelled ere well begun.
i had been happy if the general camp,pioners and all,had tasted her sweet body,so i had nothing known.
speak what?
and yet no matter;why should we go in?
what if he had said,widower aeneas too?
thence we looked toward england,and cited up a thousand heavy times,during the wars of york and lancaster,that had befalln us.
a very little i have yielded to.
i know not,but here is the regent,sir,of mytilene speaks nobly of her.
i marvel i hear not of master brook;he sent me word to stay within.
why,thou whoreson,impudent,embossed rascal,if there were anything in thy pocket but tavern reckonings,memorandums of bawdy houses,and one poor pennyworth of sugar-candy to make thee long-winded,if thy pocket were enriched with any other injuries but these,i am a villain.
we do.
let it be so,thy truth then be thy dower:for,by the sacred radiance of the sun,the mysteries of hecate and the night;by all the operation of the orbs,from whom we do exist and cease to be;here i disclaim all my paternal care,propinquity and property of blood,and as a stranger to my heart and me hold thee from this for ever.
good heart,at what?
what do you talk of?
know you not,the fire that mounts the liquor till t run oer,in seeming to augment it wastes it?
o,thy vile lady!
peace be to france,if france in peace permit our just and lineal entrance to our own;if not,bleed france,and peace ascend to heaven,whiles we,gods wrathful agent,do correct their proud contempt that beats his peace to heaven.
a woeful hostess brooks not merry guests.
if caesar please,our master will leap to be his friend.
madam,in rome i looked her in the face,and saw her led between her brother and mark antony.
i have provided for you;stay a while and you shall be conducted.
a woman sometime scorns what best contents her.
take this fellow in,and send for his master with a pursuivant presently.
hear the noble antony.
how now,sweet frank,why art thou melancholy?
it was his word.
gardon,o sweet gardon!
slandering a prince deserves it.
have you your fathers leave?
if he come under my hatches,ill never to sea again.
not so,neither,but i am resolved on two points.
lord john of lancaster,go you with him.
along with them they brought one pinch,a hungry lean-faced villain,a mere anatomy,a mountebank,a threadbare juggler,and a fortune-teller;a needy,hollow-eyd,sharp-looking wretch;a living dead man.
come,come,and sit you down,you shall not budge.
if you do love me,you will find me out.
well,i must leave her company.
so,so.
twere better for you if it were known in counsel:youll be laughed at.
o,my sweet sir,news fitting to the night,black,fearful,comfortless,and horrible.
how like a fawning publican he looks!
away with him!
o my distressed lord,even such our griefs are;here theyre but felt,and seen with mischiefs eyes,but like to groves,being toppd,they higher rise.
faith,gentlemen,now i play a merchants part,and venture madly on a desperate mart.
i can add colours to the chameleon,change shapes with proteus for advantages,and set the murderous machiavel to school.
my brother general,the commonwealth,to brother born an household cruelty,i make my quarrel in particular.
i hourly learn a doctrine of obedience,and would gladly look him i th face.
budge not,says my conscience.
now doth it turn and ebb back to the sea,where it shall mingle with the state of floods,and flow henceforth in formal majesty.
go whip thy gig.
god keep you from them,and from such false friends!
theres bests son,the tanner of wingham.
what,are men mad?
and france in choler parted!
this,and these pearls,to me sent longaville.
hang him,let him tell the king,we are prepared.
o me,my uncles spirit is in these stones.
how comes this trick upon him?
what should ail us?
i know my remedy;i must go fetch the third-borough.
i will not fail you.
tis he should hear me speak.
i will depart in quiet,and,in despite of mirth,mean to be merry.
will you go,mistress page?
that done,dissever your united strengths,and part your mingled colours once again;turn face to face,and bloody point to point;then,in a moment,fortune shall cull forth out of one side her happy minion,to whom in favour she shall give the day,and kiss him with a glorious victory.
for if you were by my unkindness shaken as i by yours,yhave passed a hell of time,and i a tyrant have no leisure taken to weigh how once i suffered in your crime.
but though thou art adjudged to the death,and passed sentence may not be recalld but to our honours great disparagement,yet will i favour thee in what i can.
strike,drum.
think on thy proteus when thou haply seest some rare noteworthy object in thy travel.
o valentine,this i endure for thee!
he did so.
that an eel is quick.
know then,i here forget all former griefs,cancel all grudge,repeal thee home again,plead a new state in thy unrivalled merit,to which i thus subscribe:sir valentine,thou art a gentleman,and well derived;take thou thy silvia,for thou hast deserved her.
why,very well then.
i may not answer.
fie,thou dishonest satan!
humbly i thank your grace.
we enjoin thee,as thou art liegeman to us,that thou carry this female bastard hence,and that thou bear it to some remote and desert place,quite out of our dominions;and that there thou leave it,without more mercy,to it own protection and favour of the climate.
mates,maid!
god shield you mean it not!
father,tis thus:yourself and all the world that talkd of her have talkd amiss of her:if she be curst,it is for policy,for shes not froward,but modest as the dove;she is not hot,but temperate as the morn;for patience she will prove a second grissel,and roman lucrece for her chastity;and to conclude,we have greed so well together that upon sunday is the wedding-day.
go to your rest,at night well feast together:.
cannot my body nor blood-sacrifice entreat you to your wonted furtherance?
what tellst thou me of black and blue?
sing me now asleep;then to your offices,and let me rest.
they think they are mine;and though traind up thus meanly i th cave wherein they bow,their thoughts do hit the roofs of palaces,and nature prompts them in simple and low things to prince it much beyond the trick of others.
thou hadst been gone,quoth she,sweet boy,ere this,but that thou toldst me thou wouldst hunt the boar.
i fear you not.
i fear too much rubbing.
both the proofs are extant.
the pleasure that some fathers feed upon is my strict fasti mean my childrens looks,and therein fasting,hast thou made me gaunt.
o,true,good catesby.
is she a capulet?
pray you,lets have no more fooling about it,but give me your blessing.
he is my good lord;whom i serve above is my master.
you praise yourself by laying defects of judgment to me;but you patched up your excuses.
so i grow stronger,you more honour gain.
what verse for it?
but let this same be presently performd,even while mens minds are wild,lest more mischance on plots and errors happen.
be whores still,and he whose pious breath seeks to convert you,be strong in whore,allure him,burn him up;let your close fire predominate his smoke,and be no turncoats.
o god!
why,shall we turn to men?
wheres thy master?
here,heres gold for thee.
but meet him now,and be it in the morn when everyone will give the time of day,he knits his brow and shows an angry eye and passeth by with stiff unbowed knee,disdaining duty that to us belongs.
tell master parson evans i will do what i can for your master.
while we pursued the horsemen of the north,he slyly stole away and left his men;whereat the great lord of northumberland,whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,cheered up the drooping army;and himself,lord clifford,and lord stafford,all abreast,charged our main battles front,and breaking in,were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
boys,bid him welcome.
no,hes in tartar limbo,worse than hell.
nay,well go with you;i will not lose the sight.
all princely graces that mould up such a mighty piece as this is,with all the virtues that attend the good,shall still be doubled on her.
o word divine!
i think he will stand very strong with us.
had he done so,himself had home the crown,which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
to tell you plain,i had rather lie in prison.
his father and i were soldiers together,to whom i have been often bound for no less than my life.
ay,gracious sovereign,they are so linked in friendship that young prince edward marries warwicks daughter.
god save you,sir john!
when i have seen such interchange of state,or state it self confounded,to decay,ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate:that time will come and take my love away.
why,so i do.
he looked all grace and success,and he is doubtless the primst of men.
discard,bully hercules;cashier.
wait you on him,i charge you,as becomes,while i make way from hence to save my life.
come,help to bear thy master;thou must not stay behind.
we were,fair queen,two lads that thought there was no more behind but such a day tomorrow as today,and to be boy eternal.
that hath made him mad.
woe,woe,for england!
and trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys.
if this may please you,discharge your powers unto their several counties,as we will ours;and here between the armies lets drink together friendly and embrace,that all their eyes may bear those tokens home of our restored love and amity.
a sailors wife had chestnuts in her lap,and mounchd,and mounchd,and mounchd.
wife,we scarce thought us blest that god had lent us but this only child;but now i see this one is one too much,and that we have a curse in having her.
i find the court here,i am sure,a more content;and all those pleasures that woo the wills of men to vanity i see through now,and am sufficient to tell the world tis but a gaudy shadow that old time as he passes by takes with him.
now his friends are dead,doors that were neer acquainted with their wards many a bounteous year must be employed now to guard sure their master.
nay,ill go with thee,cheek by jole.
his life i gave him,and did thereto add my love,without retention or restraint,all his in dedication.
let him let the matter slip,and ill give him my horse,grey capilet.
she is no match for you.
the watch dogs bark.
he ran this way,and leapd this orchard wall:call,good mercutio.
and here ill be,and there ill be,for our town,and here again,and there again.
strike up the drum towards athens.
you ever have wished the sleeping of this business,never desired it to be stirred,but oft have hindered,oft,the passages made toward it.
i do,truly,for thou swearst to me thou art honest.
it is a great price for a small vice.
wast thou with rosaline?
do you pity him?
tranio,biondello and grumio and others,attending.
fare you well.
wheres my cousin cressid?
o pretty isabella,i am pale at mine heart to see thine eyes so red.
and do not stand on quillets how to slay him;be it by gins,by snares,by subtlety,sleeping or waking,tis no matter how,so he be dead;for that is good deceit which mates him first that first intends deceit.
some sixteen months,and longer might have stayed if crooked fortune had not thwarted me.
heaven forgive me!
i thank thee,jew,for teaching me that word.
)with the moor,sayst thou?
what wilt thou tell her,nurse?
be better suited,these weeds are memories of those worser hours:i prithee put them off.
good volumnius,thou knowst that we two went to school together;even for that our love of old,i prythee hold thou my sword-hilts,whilst i run on it.
is it therefore th ambassador is silenced?
i love lavinia more than all the world.
madam,if you could find out but a man to bear a poison,i would temper it,that romeo should upon receipt thereof,soon sleep in quiet.
my lords,when you shall knowas in this rage,provoked by him,you cannotthe great danger which this mans life did owe you,youll rejoice that he is thus cut off.
therefore he will be,timon.
sir alice ford!
and he that will not fight for such a hope,go home to bed and,like the owl by day,if he arise,be mocked and wondered at.
let fools do good,and fair men call for grace,aaron will have his soul black like his face.
sweet lord longaville,rein thy tongue.
these should be hours for necessities,not for delights;times to repair our nature with comforting repose,and not for us to waste these times.
let them lay by their helmets and their spears,and both return back to their chairs again.
o you gods!
though nature hath given us wit to flout at fortune,hath not fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?
know that our griefs are risen to the top,and now at length they overflow their banks.
this your son-in-law,and son unto the king,whom heavens directing,is troth-plight to your daughter.
so,ilion,fall thou next!
what news abroad?
now,therefore,let us hence,and lose no hour till we meet warwick with his foreign power.
see,see!
come,desdemona,once more well met at cyprus.
i will marry her,sir,at your request.
farewell,fair cruelty.
this cannot be hector.
how now,lavinia?
ill give you gold.
ovocativoo remember,william;focative iscaret.
no reason i,since of your lives you set so slight a valuation,should reserve my crackd one to more care.
think upon these gone;let them affright thee.
cicero one!
follow not,ill have no speaking,i will have my bond.
hes now past it;yet,and,i say to thee,he would mouth with a beggar though she smelt brown bread and garlic.
shall we have incision?
he likewise enriched poor straggling soldiers with great quantity.
in her they are the better for their simpleness;she derives her honesty,and achieves her goodness.
and you,sir,to outlive the age i am,and die as i would do.
i tell you,tis incredible to believe how much she loves me:o!
is your assembly so?
these,and your three motives to the battle,with i know not how much more,should be demanded,and all the other by-dependances,from chance to chance;but nor the time nor place will serve our long interrogatories.
tush,tush,twill not appear.
tell who did the deed.
o gentle aaron!
this sudden stab of rancour i misdoubt;pray god,i say,i prove a needless coward.
now ill tell you without asking.
i come,anon.
nor hath loves mind of any judgment taste.
mine honest friends,i turn you not away,but,like a master married to your good service,stay till death.
as whence the sun gins his reflection shipwracking storms and direful thunders break,so from that spring,whence comfort seemd to come discomfort swells.
now art thou within point-blank of our jurisdiction regal.
he came,one;see,two;overcame,three.
by this,far off she hears some huntsman holla;a nurses song neer pleasd her babe so well:the dire imagination she did follow this sound of hope doth labour to expel;for now reviving joy bids her rejoice,and flatters her it is adonis voice.
out,tawny tartar,out!
ill kiss thy foot.
madam,she was a widow.
if,sir,you come with news from the court,i take it theres but two ways,either to utter them,or conceal them.
what,to kiss in private?
my legs can keep no measure in delight when my poor heart no measure keeps in grief.
call it not,love,for love to heaven is fled,since sweating lust on earth usurpd his name;under whose simple semblance he hath fed upon fresh beauty,blotting it with blame;which the hot tyrant stains and soon bereaves,as caterpillars do the tender leaves.
but if the while i think on thee(dear friend)all losses are restored,and sorrows end.
then came each actor on his ass the best actors in the world,either for tragedy,comedy,history,pastoral,pastoral-comical,historical-pastoral,tragical-historical,tragical-comical-historical-pastoral,scene individable,or poem unlimited.
he shall know you better,sir,if i may live to report you.
how her brain coins!
she replied it should be better he became her guest,which she entreated.
buck,buck,buck!
in common worldly things tis called ungrateful with dull unwillingness to repay a debt which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent;much more to be thus opposite with heaven,for it requires the royal debt it lent you.
this fellow had a volscian to his mother,his wife is in corioles,and his child like him by chance.
this is a scurvy tune too:but heres my comfort.
my most exquisite sir topas!
and in part him,but,you may say,not well;but ift be he i mean,hes very wild;addicted so and so;and there put on him what forgeries you please;marry,none so rank as may dishonour him;take heed of that;but,sir,such wanton,wild,and usual slips as are companions noted and most known to youth and liberty.
it seems thou wantst breaking;out upon thee,hind!
so,this was well askd,twas so well performd.
do so,king philip;hang no more in doubt.
thus yields the cedar to the axes edge,whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,under whose shade the ramping lion slept,whose top branch overpeered joves spreading tree,and kept low shrubs from winters powrful wind.
lady,will you walk about with your friend?
her voice was ever soft,gentle,and low,an excellent thing in woman.
away,you cut-purse rascal,you filthy bung,away!
here,sir,what is your pleasure?
it harrows me with fear and wonder.
bid him repair to us to ely house to see this business.
had i no eyes but ears,my ears would lovethat inward beauty and invisible;or were i deaf,thy outward parts would move each part in me that were but sensible:though neither eyes nor ears,to hear nor see,yet should i be in love by touching thee.
jack cade!
tarry,petruchio,i must go with thee,for in baptistas keep my treasure is:he hath the jewel of my life in hold,his youngest daughter,beautiful bianca,and her withholds from me and other more,suitors to her and rivals in my love;supposing it a thing impossible,for those defects i have before rehearsd,that ever katherina will be wood:therefore this order hath baptista taen,that none shall have access unto bianca till katherine the curst have got a husband.
no,no,i will not,having breath to cry.
who can control his fate?
his words were these:that richard,duke of york was rightful heir unto the english crown,and that your majesty was an usurper.
what ho,horatio!
fare thee well;a fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell.
now,lord be thanked for my good amends!
the tribune and his nephews kneel for grace;i will not be denied.
fie,fie!
ill stay a month longer.
and sure,dear friends,my thanks are too dear a halfpenny.
the next advantage will we take throughly.
somebody call my wife.
a health to lepidus!
whos there?
but heres a villain that would face me down.
an hundred marks?
bear free and patient thoughts.
this fever that hath troubled me so long lies heavy on me.
vow,burgundy,by honour of thy house,prickd on by public wrongs sustaind in france,either to get the town again or die.
thats meat and drink to me now.
hey ho!
whilst i have gold,ill be his steward still.
witness my son,now in the shade of death,whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath hath in eternal darkness folded up.
over the boots?
a bugbear take him!
i gave him satisfaction.
finch egg!
this my mean task would be as heavy to me as odious,but the mistress which i serve quickens whats dead,and makes my labours pleasures:o,she is ten times more gentle than her fathers crabbed,and hes composd of harshness.
help me,help me!
he never did harm,that i heard of.
in saying so,you shall but say the truth.
i have scaped by miracle.
out,out!
down,faitors!
i have seen the day that i have worn a visor,and could tell a whispering tale in a fair ladys ear,such as would please;tis gone,tis gone,tis gone,you are welcome,gentlemen!
true valour still a true respect should have.
call france.
helen was not up,was she?
their father was too weak,and they too strong,to hold their cursed-blessed fortune long.
ill have more,or else unsayt.
if a crow help us in,sirrah,well pluck a crow together.
i say again that sigh was breathed for emily.
dogs,easily won to fawn on any man!
o,here they come.
third trumpet.
for my better satisfaction,let me have claudios head sent me by five.
stay,hold,peace!
this is strange.
ay,cousin slender,and custalorum.
yet,i think,we are not brought so low but that between us we can kill a fly that comes in likeness of a coal-black moor.
o that ever i was born!
changd to a worser shape thou canst not be.
nymph,in thy orisons be all my sins rememberd.
why should he follow?
so can i:so every bondman in his own hand bears the power to cancel his captivity.
one only daughter have i,no kin else,on whom i may confer what i have got.
othello are there not stones in heaven but what serve for thunder?
he wrings at some distress.
but theres a saying very old and true,if that you will france win,then with scotland first begin.
my lord,my lord!
i am no strumpet,but of life as honest as you that thus abuse me.
that is to see how deep my grave is made,for with his soul fled all my worldly solace;for seeing him,i see my life in death.
god keep your ladyship still in that mind;so some gentleman or other shall scape a predestinate scratched face.
with the same haviour that your passion bears goes on my masters griefs.
especially in pride.
no more words,lets have her.
for i were loath to link with him that were not lawful chosen.
nay,i say tis very scurvy,and begin to find myself fopped in it.
here comes kent.
go to my steward.
i heard of one of them no longer than yesterdaya very honest woman,but something given to lie;as a woman should not do but in the way of honestyhow she died of the biting of it,what pain she felt.
ill be the first,sure.
no;rather i will go to benedick,and counsel him to fight against his passion.
you were called lusty shallow then,cousin.
is there not besides the douglas?
lo,ere i can repeat this curse again,within so small a time,my womans heart grossly grew captive to his honey words,and proved the subject of mine own souls curse,which hitherto hath held my eyes from rest;for never yet one hour in his bed did i enjoy the golden dew of sleep,but with his timorous dreams was still awaked.
then i prithee be merry;thy wit shall not go slipshod.
holy gonzalo,honourable man,mine eyes,een sociable to the show of thine,fall fellowly drops.
my most honourable lord,i am een sick of shame that when your lordship this other day sent to me i was so unfortunate a beggar.
but his falsehood!
pisanio,thou that standst so for posthumus!
why does the drum come hither?
no matter where,quoth he leave me,and then the story aptly ends:the night is spent.
the tyrannous and bloody act is done,the most arch deed of piteous massacre that ever yet this land was guilty of.
be bloody,bold,and resolute.
which shows that beauty hath his power and will,which can as well inflame as it can kill.
o,the blood is spilld of my dear kinsman!
if he take her,let him take her simply.
good hearts,devise something.
good troilus,chide me for it.
if all the devils of hell be drawn in little,and legion himself possessed him,yet ill speak to him.
such an exploit have i in hand,ligarius,had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
thank you,sir.
god give you joy,sir,of your gallant bride.
be those the garments?
tis just the fashion.
cleopatra,catching but the least noise of this,dies instantly.
if not,i th name of god,your pleasure be fulfilled.
there is many complaints,davy,against that visor.
now heavens forfend such scarcity of youth!
bring in our daughter,clothed like a bride,for the embracements even of jove himself;at whose conception,till lucina reigned,nature this dowry gave,to glad her presence,the senate house of planets all did sit,to knit in her their best perfections.
how do you now,lieutenant?
i do not know what kind of my obedience i should tender.
peter,didst ever see the like?
how now,marina!
a man,a prince,by him so benefitted!
now is he come unto the chamber door that shuts him from the heaven of his thought,which with a yielding latch,and with no more,hath barred him from the blessed thing he sought.
egeon,art thou not?
no more of that;i have noted it well.
masters,you ought to consider with yourselves,to bring in(god shield us!
follow my mother.
excuse it not,for i am peremptory.
what news?
heres one,a friend,and one that knows you well.
the language i have learnt these forty years,my native english,now i must forgo;and now my tongues use is to me no more than an unstringed viol or a harp,or like a cunning instrument cased up or,being open,put into his hands that knows no touch to tune the harmony.
now,hal,to the news at court.
your daughter here the princes left for dead;let her awhile be secretly kept in,and publish it that she is dead indeed:maintain a mourning ostentation;and on your familys old monument hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites that appertain unto a burial.
ill deliver all;and promise you calm seas,auspicious gales,and sail so expeditious that shall catch your royal fleet far off.
pardon me,gods!
why,headstrong liberty is lashd with woe.
wast so?
and so it is.
my lord,i do protest o,do not swear.
where livd?
i have had ford enough.
beware the ides of march.
the battle continues;the britons fly;cymbeline is taken.
the duke of lancaster and westmoreland;against the welsh,himself and harry monmouth;but who is substituted gainst the french i have no certain notice.
was this ambition?
but,woe is me,you are so sick of late,so far from cheer and from your former state,that i distrust you.
what subject can give sentence on his king?
the spirits of valiant shirley,stafford,blunt are in my arms.
the king gone?
weep not till they weep blood.
o,then we bring forth weeds when our quick minds lie still,and our ills told us is as our earing.
as merry as crickets,my lad.
besides,to be demanded of a spongewhat replication should be made by the son of a king?
what is he that you ask for,niece?
thats the dogs name.
thus have you breathed your curse against yourself.
i cannot tell what the dickens his name is my husband had him of.
for gods sake,take away this captive scold.
answer,thou dead elm,answer.
see,where he comes.
the room where they supped is too hot,theyll come in straight.
now,methinks,i feel a little ease.
katherine,i charge thee,tell these headstrong women what duty they do owe their lords and husbands.
if the king had no son,they would desire to live on crutches till he had one.
alas,poor rogue!
where your good word cannot advantage him,your slander never can endamage him;therefore the office is indifferent,being entreated to it by your friend.
this is the feast that i have bid her to,and this the banquet she shall surfeit on;for worse than philomel you used my daughter,and worse than procne i will be revenged.
here dies the dusky torch of mortimer,choked with ambition of the meaner sort.
it is,my lord.
i do not think it good.
welcome,mark antony.
and,lords,towards coventry bend we our course,where peremptory warwick now remains.
it is a quarrel most unnatural,to be revenged on him that loveth thee.
ill like a maid the better,whilst i have a tooth in my head.
twenty to one,hell come to speak to her;and if she be as gentle as shes fair,i know shes his;he has a tongue will tame tempests and make the wild rocks wanton.
good sir,i do in friendship counsel you to leave this place.
i am cruel fearful!
let me supervise the canzonet.
there is thy gold,worse poison to mens souls,doing more murder in this loathsome world than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
i shall never laugh but in that maids company.
he cried to me;i saw him prisoner;but then aufidius was within my view,and wrath oerwhelmed my pity.
what,was she ravished?
that she is dead.
i told you,sir,my daughter is disposed of.
he shall be happy that can find him,if our grace can make him so.
a giving hand,though foul,shall have fair praise.
the hobby-horse is but a colt,and your love perhaps a hackney.
poor i am stale,a garment out of fashion,and for i am richer than to hang by th walls i must be rippd.
pray be not sick,for you must be our huswife.
well know they what they speak that speak so wisely.
if ever i live to see it,i will challenge it.
o god!
give me them that will face me.
cousin of exeter,what thinks your lordship?
more torches here!
ill help you,sir toby,because well be dressed together.
or,with the rest,where is your darling rutland?
sir,have pity;ill be his surety.
you must needs learn,lord,to amend this fault.
ho,no,no,no,no:my meaning in saying he is a good man is to have you understand me that he is sufficient.
why bastard?
the dauphin,whom of succours we entreated,returns us that his powers are yet not ready to raise so great a siege.
you blocks,you stones,you worse than senseless things!
o worthy fool!
his love,perceiving how he was enragd,grew kinder,and his fury was assuagd.
lastly,myself unkindly banished,the gates shut on me,and turned weeping out,to beg relief among romes enemies;who drowned their enmity in my true tears,and oped their arms to embrace me as a friend.
if she have time to breathe,be well assured her faction will be full as strong as ours.
shes noble born,and like her true nobility she has carried herself towards me.
i am given,sir,secretly to understand that your younger brother orlando hath a disposition to come in disguised against me to try a fall.
i charge thee that thou attend me.
whats int is precious.
he needs not;it is no hidden virtue in him.
ill entertain myself like one that i am not acquainted withal;for,sure,unless he know some strain in me that i know not myself,he would never have boarded me in this fury.
reverend appearer,no;i threw her overboard with these very arms.
swear me to this,and i will neer say no.
o gods and goddesses!
when the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,but creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
when did she cross thee with a bitter word?
who comes here?
the fellow has good judgment.
do what ye dare,we are as resolute.
another lean unwashd artificer cuts off his tale and talks of arthurs death.
i for a while will leave you;but stir not you till you have well determined upon these slanderers.
you have said,sir.
let it here be done.
nay,i know not.
good enobarbus,tis a worthy deed,and shall become you well,to entreat your captain to soft and gentle speech.
empty old receptacles,or common shores,of filth;serve by indenture to the common hangman:any of these ways are yet better than this;for what thou professest,a baboon,could he speak,would own a name too dear.
though i am satisfied,and need no more than what i know,yet shall the oracle give rest to the minds of others,such as he whose ignorant credulity will not come up to th truth.
i am sorry fort,my lord.
but think you,helen,if you should tender your supposed aid,he would receive it?
go and tell them so.
the trumpet sounds retreat;the day is ours.
that youths a rare courtier.
ay,and said nothing but what i protest intendment of doing.
should buz!
hence both are gone with conscience and remorse they could not speak;and so i left them both to bear this tidings to the bloody king.
despair and die!
i tell thee,licio,this is wonderful.
a stirring dwarf we do allowance give before a sleeping giant.
shes een setting on water to scald such chickens as you are.
no,sir,quoth he,call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune.
so please my lord,i might not be admitted,but from her handmaid do return this answer:the element itself,till seven years heat,shall not behold her face at ample view;but like a cloistress she will veiled walk,and water once a day her chamber round with eye-offending brine:all this to season a brothers dead love,which she would keep fresh and lasting in her sad remembrance.
what,ho!
a beast,as thou art.
that good fellow,if i command him,follows my appointment.
tis noble spoken.
and there he met with brave gallants of war,by one,by two,by three-a.
a thing for me?
these our actors,as i foretold you,were all spirits and are melted into air,into thin air:and,like the baseless fabric of this vision,the cloud-cappd towers,the gorgeous palaces,the solemn temples,the great globe itself,yea,all which it inherit,shall dissolve,and,like this insubstantial pageant faded,leave not a rack behind.
twice-sod simplicity,bis coctus!
spare your oaths,ill trust to your conditions.
it was so,sir,for she had a green wit.
to shun this blot,she would not blot the letter with words,till action might become them better.
some bring the murdered body,some the murderers.
to laughter,as i take it,if the good truth were known.
coal-black is better than another hue in that it scorns to bear another hue;for all the water in the ocean can never turn the swans black legs to white,although she lave them hourly in the flood.
heres my fiddlestick,heres that shall make you dance.
seek him and bring him hither.
fetch me a better answer.
she is wronged,she is slandered,she is undone.
the dearest ring in venice will i give you,and find it out by proclamation,only for this i pray you pardon me.
thus high,by thy advice and thy assistance is king richard seated.
i come to fetch you to the senate-house.
sblood,i would my face were in your belly!
ill warrant you,within these three or four days ill make her right again.
why,that was when three crabbed months had sourd themselves to death,ere i could make thee open thy white hand and clap thyself my love;then didst thou utter i am yours for ever.
why,stay,and hear me speak.
farewell,timon.
i weep for thee,and yet no cause i have;for why thou leftst me nothing in thy will;and yet thou leftst me more than i did crave;for why i craved nothing of thee still.
only deserve my love by loving him.
meanwhile,sir,with the little skill i have,full well shalt thou perceive how much i dare.
ay,to keep her chamber.
well,thats set down.
i say thou hast belied mine innocent child:thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,and she lies buried with her ancestors;o!
one cries o this smoke!
this is most likely!
confirm it so!
i gave thee mine before thou didst request it;and yet i would it were to give again.
ill rob none but myself;and let me die,stealing so poorly.
sure,there cannot.
come by and by to my chamber.
